<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title>The Old House in Vauxhall Walk</title>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/VGSplash.css"/>
   </head>
   <body>
       <!--#include virtual="inc/VGNav.xhtml"-->
      <div>
         <h1>The Old House in Vauxhall Walk</h1>
         <h2>Charlotte Riddell</h2>
      </div>
      <div  class="w3-container">
        
            <h3>Chapter One</h3>
            <p>
                <q>Houseless—homeless—hopeless!</q>
            </p>
            
            <p>Many a one who had before him trodden that same street must have uttered the same
                words—the weary, the desolate, the hungry, the forsaken, the waifs
                and strays of struggling humanity that are always coming and going, cold, starving and miserable, over the
                pavements of Lambeth Parish; but it is open to question whether they were ever
                previously spoken with a more thorough conviction of their truth, or with a feeling
                of keener self-pity, than by the young man who hurried along Vauxhall Walk one rainy
                winter's night, with no overcoat on
                his shoulders and no hat on his head.</p>
            
            <p>A strange sentence for one-and-twenty to
                give expression to—and it was stranger still to come from the lips of a person who looked like and who
                was a gentleman. He did not appear either to have sunk very far down in the good graces of Fortune. There was no sign or token
                which would have induced a passer-by to imagine he had been worsted after a long
                fight with calamity. His boots were not worn
                down at the heels or broken at the toes, as many, many boots were
                which dragged and shuffled and scraped along the pavement. His clothes were good and
                fashionably cut, and innocent of the rents and patches and tatters that slunk
                wretchedly by, crouched in doorways,
                and held out a hand mutely appealing for charity. His face was not pinched with
                famine or lined with wicked wrinkles,
                or brutalised by drink and debauchery, and yet he said and thought he was
                    hopeless, and almost in his young
                    despair spoke the words aloud.</p>
            <p>It was a bad
                night to be about with such a feeling
                in one's heart. The rain was cold,
                pitiless and increasing. A damp, keen wind blew down the cross streets leading from the river. The fumes of the
                gas works seemed to fall with the
                rain. The roadway was muddy; the pavement greasy; the lamps burned dimly; and that dreary district of London looked its very
                gloomiest and worst.</p>
            <p>Certainly not an evening to be abroad
                without a home to go to, or a sixpence in one's pocket, yet this was the position of
                the young gentleman who, without a hat, strode along Vauxhall Walk, the rain beating
                on his unprotected head.</p>
            <p>Upon the houses, so large and good—once
                inhabited by well-to-do citizens, now let out for the most part in floors to weekly
                tenants—he looked enviously. He would have given much to have had a room, or even
                part of one. He had been walking for a long time, ever since dark in fact, and dark
                falls soon in December. He was tired
                and cold and hungry, and he saw no
                prospect save of pacing the streets all night.</p>
            <p>As he passed one of the lamps, the light
                falling on his face revealed hadsome
                young features, a mobile, sensitive mouth, and that particular formation of the
                eyebrows—not a frown exactly, but a certain draw of the brows—often considered to
                bespeak genius, but which more surely accompanies an impulsive organisation easily
                pleased, easily depressed, capable of suffering very keenly or of enjoying fully. In his short life he had not
                enjoyed much, and he had suffered a good deal. That night, when he walked bareheaded through the rain, affairs had
                come to a crisis. So far as he in his despair felt able to see or reason, the best thing he could do was
                to die. The world did not want him; he
                would be better out of it.</p>
            <p>The door of one of the houses stood
                open, and he could see in the dimly
                lighted hall some few articles of furniture waiting to be removed. A van stood
                beside the curb, and two men were lifting a table into it as he, for a second,
                paused.</p>
            <p>
            <q>Ah,</q> he thought, <q>even
                    those poor people have some place
                    to go to, some shelter provided, while I have not a roof to cover my head, or a
                    shilling to get a night's
                    lodging.</q> And he went on fast,, as if memory were spurring him, so fast
                that a man running after had some trouble to overtake him.</p>
            <p>
            <q>Master Graham!
                        Master Graham!</q> this man
                exclaimed, breathlessly; and, thus addressed, the young fellow stopped as if he had
                been shot.</p>
            <p>
            <q>Who are you that know me?</q> he asked, facing
                round.</p>
            <p>
                <q>I'm William; don't you
                    remember William, Master Graham? And, Lord's sake, sir, what
                    are you doing out a night like
                    this without your hat?</q>
            </p>
            <p>
            <q>I forgot it,</q> was the answer; <q>and I did not care to go back and fetch it.</q>
         </p>
            <p>
                <q>Then why don't you buy another, sir? You'll catch your death
                    of cold; and besides, you'll excuse
                    me, sir, but it does look odd.</q>
            </p>
            <p>
            <q>I know that,</q> said Master Graham grimly; <q>but I haven't a halfpenny in the world.</q>
         </p>
            <p>
            <q>Have you and the master, then—</q> began the man, but
                there he hesitated and stopped.</p>
            <p>
            <q>Had a quarrel? Yes, and one that will last us our
                    lives,</q> finished the other, with a bitter laugh. <q>And where are you going
                    now?</q>
         </p>
            <p>
                <q>Going! Nowhere, except to seek out the softest paving stone,
                    or the shelter of an arch.</q>
            </p>
            <p>
                <q>You are joking, sir.</q>
            </p>
            <p>
                <q>I don't feel much in a mood for jesting either.</q>
            </p>
            <p>
                <q>Will you come back with me, Master Graham? We are just at the last of our moving, but there
                    is a spark of fire
                    still in the grate, and it would be
                    better talking out of this rain. Will you come, sir?</q>
            </p>
            <p>
            <q>Come! Of course I will come,</q> said the young
                fellow, and, turning, they retraced their steps to the house he had looked into as
                he passed along.</p>
            <p>An old, old
                house, with long, wide hall, stairs
                low, easy of ascent, with deep cornices
                to the ceilings, and oak floorings, and mahogany doors, which still spoke mutely of the wealth and stability of the
                original owner, who lived before the Tradescants and Ashmoles were thought of, and
                had been sleeping far longer than they, in St Mary's churchyard, hard by the
                archbishop's palace.</p>
            <p>
            <q>Step upstairs, sir,</q>
                entreated the departing tenant;
                    <q>it's cold
                    down here, with the door standing
                    wide.</q>
         </p>
            <p>
            <q>Had you the whole house, then, William?</q> asked Graham
                    Coulton, in some surprise.</p>
            <p>
            <q>The whole of it, and right sorry I, for one, am to leave it;
                    but nothing else would serve my wife. This room, sir,</q> and with a little
                conscious pride, William, doing the honours of
                his late residence, asked his guest into a spacious apartment occupying the full
                width of the house on the first
                floor.</p>
            <p>Tired though he was, the young man could not repress an exclamation of
                astonishment.</p>
            <p>
            <q>Why, we have nothing so large as this at home, William,</q> he said.</p>
            <p>
            <q>It's a fine house,</q> answered William, raking the embers together as he spoke and throwing some
                wood upon them; <q>but, like many a good family, it has come
                        down in the world.</q>
         </p>
            <p>There were four windows in the room,
                shuttered close; they had deep, low
                seats, suggestive of pleasant days gone by; when, well-curtained and well-cushioned,
                they formed snug retreats for the children, and sometimes for adults also; there was no furniture
                left, unless an oaken settle beside the hearth, and a large mirror let into the
                panelling at the opposite end of the apartment, with a black marble console table beneath it, could be so
                considered; but the very absence of
                chairs and tables enabled the magnificent proportions of the chamber to be seen to
                full advantage, and there wa Coultons nothing to distract the attention from the
                ornamented ceiling, the panelled walls, the old-world chimney-piece so quaintly
                carved, and the fireplace lined with tiles, each one of which contained a picture of
                some scriptural or allegorical subject.</p>
            <p>
            <q>Had you been staying on here, William,</q> said Coulton, flinging himself wearily on the settle, <q>I'd have asked you to let me stop where I am for the
                        night.</q>
         </p>
            <p>
            <q>If you can make shift, sir, there is nothing as I am aware of
                    to prevent you stopping,</q> answered the man, fanning the wood into a
                flame. <q>I shan't take the key back to the landlord till
                    tomorrow, and this would be better for you than the cold streets at any rate.</q>
         </p>
            <p>
            <q>Do you really mean what you say?</q> asked the other
                eagerly. <q>I should be thankful to lie here; I feel
                        dead beat.</q>
         </p>
            <p>
                <q>Then stay, Master
                        Graham, and welcome. I'll fetch a basket of coals I was going to
                    put in the van, and make up a good fire, so that you can warm yourself then I must run round to
                    the other house for a minute or
                    two, but it's not far, and I'll be back as soon as ever I can.</q>
            </p>
            <p>
            <q>Thank you, William;
                    you were always good to me,</q> said the young man gratefully. <q>This is delightful,</q> and he stretched his numbed
                hands over the blazing wood, and looked round the room with a satisfied smile.</p>
            <p>
            <q>I did not expect to get into such quarters,</q> he
                remarked, as his friend in need reappeared, carrying a half-bushel basket full of
                coals, with which he proceeded to make up a roaring fire. <q>I am sure the last thing I could
                    have imagined was meeting with anyone I knew in Vauxhall Walk.</q>
         </p>
            <p>
            <q>Where were you coming from, Master Graham?</q> asked William
                curiously.</p>
            <p>
                <q>From old
                    Melfield's. I was at his school once, you know, and he has now retired, and is
                    living upon the proceeds of years of robbery in Kennington Oval. I thought,
                    perhaps he would lend me a pound, or offer me a night's lodging, or even a glass of wine; but, oh dear, no. He
                    took the moral tone, and observed he could have nothing to say to a son who
                    defied his father's authority. He gave me plenty of advice, but nothing else,
                    and showed me out into the rain with a bland courtesy, for which I could have
                    struck him.</q>
            </p>
            <p>William
                muttered something under his breath
                which was not a blessing, and added aloud: <q>You are better
                    here, sir, I think, at any rate. I'll be back in less than half an
                    hour.</q>
         </p>
            <p>Left to himself, young Coulton took off
                his coat, and shifting the settle a little, hung it over the end to dry. With his
                handkerchief he rubbed some of the wet
                out of his hair; then, perfectly exhausted, he lay down before the fire
                and, pillowing his head on his arm, fell fast asleep.</p>
            <p>He was awakened nearly an hour afterwards by the sound of someone gently stirring the
                    fire and moving quietly about the
                room. Starting into a sitting posture, he looked around him, bewildered for a
                moment, and then, recognising his humble friend, said laughingly:</p>
            <p>
                <q>I had lost
                    myself; I could not imagine where I was.</q>
            </p>
            <p>
            <q>I am sorry to see you here, sir,</q> was the reply;
                    <q>but still
                    this is better than being out of doors. It has come on a nasty
                    night. I brought a rug round with
                    me that, perhaps, you would wrap yourself in.</q>
         </p>
            <p>
            <q>I wish, at the same time, you had brought me something to
                    eat,</q> said the young man, laughing.</p>
            <p>
            <q>Are you hungry, then, sir?</q> asked William, in a tone of concern.</p>
            <p>
                <q>Yes; I have had nothing to eat since breakfast. The
                    governor and I commenced rowing the minute we sat down to luncheon, and I rose and left the table. But
                    hunger does not signify; I am dry and warm, and can forget the other matter in
                    sleep.</q>
            </p>
            <p>
            <q>And it's too late now to buy anything,</q> soliloquised
                the man; <q>the shops are all shut long ago. Do you think,
                    sir,</q> he added, brightening, <q>you could manage some
                    bread and cheese?</q>
         </p>
            <p>
            <q>Do I think—I should call it a perfect feast,</q>
                answered Graham Coulton. <q>But never mind about food tonight, William; you have had trouble enough, and to spare, already.</q>
         </p>
            <p>William's only answer was to dart to the door
                and run downstairs. Presently he reappeared, carrying in one hand bread and cheese
                wrapped up in paper, and in the other a pewter measure full of beer.</p>
            <p>
            <q>It's the best I could do, sir,</q> he said apologetically.
                    <q>I had to beg this from the landlady.</q>
         </p>
            <p>
            <q>Here's to her good health!</q> exclaimed the young
                fellow gaily, taking a long pull at the tankard. <q>That
                    tastes better than champagne in my father's house.</q>
         </p>
            <p>
            <q>Won't he be uneasy about you?</q> ventured William, who, having by this time emptied the coals,
                was now seated on the inverted basket, looking wistfully at the relish with which the son of the former master
                was eating his bread and cheese.</p>
            <p>
            <q>No,</q> was the decided answer. <q>When he hears it pouring cats and dogs he will only hope I
                    am out in the deluge, and say a good drenching will cool my pride.</q>
         </p>
            <p>
            <q>I do not think you are right there,</q> remarked the
                man.</p>
            <p>
                <q>But I am sure I am. My father always hated me, as he hated my mother.</q>
            </p>
            <p>
                <q>Begging your pardon, sir; he was over fond of your
                    mother.</q>
            </p>
            <p>
                <q>If you had heard what he said about her today, you might
                    find reason to alter your opinion. He told me I resembled her in mind as well as
                    body; that I was a coward, a
                    simpleton, and a hypocrite.</q>
            </p>
            <p>
                <q>He did not mean it, sir.</q>
            </p>
            <p>
            <q>He did, every word. He does think I am a coward, because I—I—</q> And the
                young fellow broke into a passion of hysterical tears.</p>
            <p>
            <q>I don't half like leaving you here alone,</q> said William, glancing round the room with a quick trouble in his eyes; <q>but I have no place fit to
                    ask you to stop, and I am forced to go myself, because I am night watchman, and must be on at twelve
                    o'clock.</q>
         </p>
            <p>
            <q>I shall be right enough,</q> was the answer. <q>Only I mustn't talk any more of my father. Tell me about
                    yourself, William. How did you manage to
                    get such a big house, and why are
                    you leaving it?</q>
         </p>
            <p>
                <q>The landlord put me in charge, sir; and it was my wife's fancy
                    not to like it.</q>
            </p>
            <p>
                <q>Why did she not like it?</q>
            </p>
            <p>
            <q>She felt desolate
                    alone with the children at night,</q> answered William, turning away his head; then added, next minute: <q>Now, sir, if you think I can do no more for you, I had best be
                    off. Time's getting on. I'll look round tomorrow morning.</q>
         </p>
            <p>
            <q>Good night,</q> said the young fellow, stretching out his hand,
                which the other took as freely and frankly as it was offered. <q>What should I have done this evening if I had not chanced to meet
                you?</q>
         </p>
            <p>
                <q>I don't think there is much chance in the world, Master Graham,' was the quiet answer. 'I do
                    hope you will rest well, and not be the worse for your wetting.</q>
            </p>
            <p>
            <q>No fear of
                    that,</q> was the rejoinder, and the next minute the young man found
                himself all alone in the Old House in Vauxhall Walk.</p>
        
        
            <h3>Chapter Two</h3>
            <p>Lying on the settle, with the fire
                burnt out, and the room in total darkness, Graham
                    Coulton
                dreamed a curious
                dream. He thought he awoke from
                    deep slumber to find a log
                smouldering away upon the hearth, and the mirror at the end of the apartment
                reflecting fitful gleams of light. He
                could not understand how it came to pass that, far away as he was from the glass, he
                was able to see everything in it; but he resigned himself to the difficulty without
                astonishment, as people generally do in dreams.</p>
            
            <p>Neither did he feel surprised when he beheld the outline of a female figure seated
                beside the fire, engaged in picking
                something out of her lap and dropping it with a despairing gesture.</p>
            <p>He heard the mellow sound of gold, and knew she was lifting and dropping sovereigns,
                he turned a little so as to see the person engaged in such a singular and
                meaningless manner, and found that, where there had been no chair on the previous
                    night, there was a chair now, on
                which was seated an old, wrinkled
                hag, her clothes poor and ragged, a mob cap barely covering her scant
                white hair, her cheeks sunken, her nose hooked, her fingers more like talons than aught else as they dived down into the heap of gold, portions of which
                they lifted but to scatter mournfully.</p>
            <p>
            <q>Oh! my lost
                    life,</q> she moaned, in a
                voice of the bitterest
                anguish. <q>Oh!
                    my lost life—for one day, for one
                    hour of it again!</q>
         </p>
            <p>Out of the darkness—out of the corner
                of the room where the shadows lay
                deepest—out from the gloom abiding
                near the door—out from the dreary
                night, with their sodden feet and
                    wet dripping from their heads, came
                the old men and the young children, the worn women and the weary hearts, whose misery that gold might have relieved, but
                whose wretchedness it mocked.</p>
            <p>Round that miser, who once sat gloating as she now sat lamenting, they crowded—all
                those pale, sad shapes—the aged of days, the infant of hours, the
                sobbing outcast, honest poverty, repentant vice; but one low cry proceeded from those pale lips—a cry for
                help she might have given, but which she withheld.</p>
            <p>They closed about her, all together, as
                they had done singly in life; they prayed, they sobbed, they entreated; with haggard
                eyes the figure regarded the
                    poor she had repulsed, the
                    children against whose cry she had closed her ears, the old people she had suffered to starve and die for want of what would have been the merest trifle to
                her; then, with a terrible
                scream, she raised her lean arms above
                her head, and sank down—down—the gold scattering as it fell out of her
                lap, and rolling along the floor, till its gleam was lost in the outer darkness beyond.</p>
            <p>Then Graham Coulton awoke in good earnest,
                with the perspiration
                oozing from every pore, with a
                    fear and an agony upon him such as he had never before felt in all
                his existence, and with the sound of the heart-rending cry—<q>Oh! my lost life</q>—still ringing in his ears.</p>
            <p>Mingled with all, too, there seemed to have been some lesson for him which he had
                forgotten, that, try as he would, eluded his memory, and which, in the very act of waking, glided away.</p>
            <p>He lay for a little thinking about all this, and then, still
                heavy with sleep, retraced his way into
                dreamland once more.</p>
            <p>It was natural, perhaps, that, mingling with the strange fantasies which follow in the train of night and darkness, the former vision should recur, and the young man ere
                long found himself toiling through scene after scene wherein the figure of the woman
                he had seen seated beside a dying fire
                held principal place.</p>
            <p>He saw her walking slowly across the
                floor munching a dry crust—she who could have purchased all the luxuries wealth can
                command; on the hearth, contemplating her, stood a man of commanding presence,
                dressed in the fashion of long ago. In his eyes there was a dark look of anger, on his lips a curling smile of disgust, and
                somehow, even in his sleep, the dreamer understood it was the ancestor to the
                descendant he beheld—that the house
                put to mean uses in which he lay had never so far descended from its high estate, as
                the woman possessed of so pitiful a soul, contaminated with the most despicable and insidious vice poor
                humanity knows, for all other vices seem to have connection with the flesh, but the greed of the miser eats into
                the very soul.</p>
            <p>Filthy of person, repulsive to look at, hard of heart as she was, he yet
                beheld another phantom, which, coming
                into the room, met her almost on the threshold, taking her by the hand, and
                pleading, as it seemed, for assistance. He could not hear all that passed, but a
                word now and then fell upon his ear. Some talk of former days; some mention of a
                fair young mother—an appeal, as it seemed, to a time when they were tiny brother and
                sister, and the accursed greed for gold
                had not divided them. All in vain; the hag only answered him as she had answered the children, and the young girls, and the
                    old people in his former vision.
                Her heart was as invulnerable to natural affection as it had proved to human
                sympathy. He begged, as it appeared, for aid to avert some bitter misfortune or terrible disgrace, and adamant might have been found more yielding
                to his prayer. Then the figure standing on the hearth changed to an angel, which
                folded its wings mournfully over its
                face, and the man, with bowed head, slowly left the room.</p>
            <p>Even as he did so the scene changed again; it was night once more, and the miser wended her way upstairs. From
                below, Graham Coulton fancied he watched
                her toiling wearily from step to step. She had aged strangely since the previous scenes. She moved with difficulty; it
                seemed the greatest exertion for her to creep from step to step, her skinny hand traversing the balusters
                with slow and painful deliberateness.
                Fascinated, the young man's eyes
                followed the progress of that feeble, decrepit woman. She was solitary in a
                    desolate
                house, with a deeper
                blackness than the darkness of night waiting to engulf her.</p>
            <p>It seemed to Graham Coulton that after
                that he lay for a time in a still,
                dreamless sleep, upon awaking from which he found himself entering a chamber as
                sordid and unclean in its appointments as the woman of his previous vision had been
                in her person. The poorest labourer's
                wife would have gathered more comforts around her than that room contained. A
                four-poster bedstead without hangings of any kind—a blind drawn up awry—an
                    old carpet covered with dust, and
                dirt on the floor—a rickety washstand with all the paint worn off it—an ancient mahogany dressing-table, and a
                    cracked glass spotted all over—were
                all the objects he could at first discern, looking at the room through that
                    dim
                light which oftentimes obtains in
                    dreams.</p>
            <p>By degrees, however, he perceived the outline of someone lying huddled on the bed.
                Drawing nearer, he found it was that of the person whose dreadful presence seemed to pervade the house. What a terrible sight she looked, with her thin
                white locks scattered over the pillow,
                with what were mere remnants of blankets gathered about her shoulders, with her
                    claw-like fingers clutching the
                clothes, as though even in sleep she was guarding her gold!</p>
            <p>An awful and a repulsive spectacle, but not with half the terror in it of that which followed. Even as
                the young man looked he heard stealthy
                footsteps on the stairs. Then he saw
                first one man and then his fellow steal cautiously into the room. Another second, and the pair stood
                beside the bed, murder in their
                    eyes.</p>
            <p>Graham Coulton tried to shout—tried to
                move, but the deterrent power which exists in dreams only tied his tongue William and paralysed
                his limbs. He could but hear and look, and what he heard and saw was this: aroused
                suddenly from sleep, the woman started, only to receive a blow from one of the
                ruffians, whose fellow followed his lead by plunging a knife into her breast.</p>
            <p>Then, with a gurgling
                scream, she fell back on the bed, and
                at the same moment, with a cry,
                    Graham Coulton again awoke, to thank
                heaven it was but an illusion.</p>
        
        
            <h3>Chapter Three</h3>
            <p>
            <q>I hope you slept well, sir.</q> It was William, who, coming into the hall with the sunlight
                of a fine bright morning streaming after him, asked this question: <q>Had you a good night's rest?</q>
         </p>
            <p>Graham Coulton laughed, and answered:
                    <q>Why, faith, I was somewhat in the case of Paddy,
                    “who could not slape for dhraming”. I slept well enough, I suppose, but whether
                    it was in consequence of the row with my dad, or the hard bed, or the
                    cheese—most likely the bread and cheese so late at night—I dreamt all the night long, the most extraordinary dreams. Some old woman kept cropping up, and I saw her murdered.</q>
         </p>
            <p>
            <q>You don't say that, sir?</q> said William
                nervously.</p>
            <p>
            <q>I do, indeed,</q> was the reply. <q>However, that is all gone and past. I have been down in the kitchen and had a good wash,
                    and I am as fresh as a daisy, and as hungry as a hunter; and, oh, William, can you get me any
                breakfast?</q>
         </p>
            <p>
            <q>Certainly, Master Graham. I have brought round a kettle, and I
                    will make the water boil immediately. I suppose, sir</q>—this
                    tentatively—<q>you'll be going home today?</q>
         </p>
            <p>
            <q>Home!</q>
                repeated the young man. <q>Decidedly not. I'll never go home again till I return with
                    some medal hung to my coat, or a leg or arm cut off. I've thought it all out,
                        William. I'll go and enlist. There's a
                    talk of war; and, living or dead,
                    my father shall have reason to retract his opinion about my being a coward.</q>
         </p>
            <p>
            <q>I am sure the admiral never thought you anything of the sort,
                    sir,</q> said William. <q>Why, you have the pluck of ten!</q>
         </p>
            <p>
            <q>Not before him,</q> answered the young fellow
                sadly.</p>
            <p>
                <q>You'll do nothing rash, Master
                        Graham; you won't go 'listing, or aught of that sort, in your
                    anger?</q>
            </p>
            <p>
            <q>If I do not, what is to become of me?</q> asked the
                other. <q>I cannot dig—to beg I am ashamed. Why, but for
                    you, I should not have had a roof over my head last night.</q>
         </p>
            <p>
                <q>Not much of a roof, I am afraid, sir.</q>
            </p>
            <p>
            <q>Not much of a roof!</q>
                repeated the young man. <q>Why, who could desire a better? What a capital room this
                    is,' he went on, looking around the apartment, where William was now kindling a fire; 'one might dine twenty people here easily!</q>
         </p>
            <p>
                <q>If you think so well of the place, Master Graham, you might stay here for a
                    while, till you have made up your mind what you are going to do. The landlord
                    won't make any objection, I am very
                    sure.</q>
            </p>
            <p>
                <q>Oh! nonsense; he would want a long rent for a
                        house like this.</q>
            </p>
            <p>
            <q>I dare say; if he could get it,</q> was William's significant answer.</p>
            <p>
                <q>What do you mean? Won't the place let?</q>
            </p>
            
            <p>
                <q>No, sir. I did not tell you last night, but there was a murder done here, and people are shy of the
                        house ever since.</q>
            </p>
            <p>
                <q>A murder!
                    What sort of a murder? Who was
                        murdered?</q>
            </p>
            <p>
                <q>A woman, Master
                        Graham—the landlord's sister; she lived here all alone, and was supposed to have money.
                    Whether she had or not, she was found dead from a stab in her breast, and if there ever was any
                    money, it must have been taken at the same time, for none ever was found in the
                        house from that day to
                    this.</q>
            </p>
            <p>
            <q>Was that the reason your wife would not stop
                    here?</q> asked the young man, leaning against the mantelshelf, and looking
                thoughtfully down on William.</p>
            <p>
            <q>Yes, sir. She could not stand it any longer; she got that
                        thin and nervous no one would have believed it possible; she never saw anything, but she
                    said she heard footsteps and
                        voices, and then when she
                    walked through the hall, or up the staircase, someone always seemed to be
                        following her. We put the
                        children to sleep in that big
                    room you had last night, and they
                    declared they often saw an old
                    woman sitting by the hearth. Nothing ever came my way,</q> finished
                    William, with a laugh; <q>I was always ready to go to sleep the minute my head touched the
                    pillow.</q>
         </p>
            <p>
            <q>Were not the murderers discovered?</q> asked Graham Coulton.</p>
            <p>
                <q>No, sir; the landlord, Miss Tynan's
                        brother, had always lain under the suspicion of it—quite wrongfully, I am very sure—but he will never clear himself
                    now. It was known he came and asked her for help a day or two before the
                        murder, and it was also known
                    he was able within a week or two to weather whatever trouble had been harassing him. Then, you see, the
                    money was never found; and, altogether, people scarce knew what to
                    think.</q>
            </p>
            <p>
            <q>Humph!</q> ejaculated Graham Coulton, and he took a few turns up and down the apartment. <q>Could I go and see this landlord?</q>
         </p>
            <p>
            <q>Surely, sir, if you had a hat,</q> answered William, with such a serious decorum that the young
                man burst out laughing.</p>
            <p>
            <q>That is an obstacle, certainly,</q> he remarked,
                    <q>and I must make a note do instead. I have a pencil
                    in my pocket, so here goes.</q>
         </p>
            <p>Within half an hour from the dispatch of that note William was back again with a sovereign; the landlord's
                compliments, and he would be much obliged if Mr
                    Coulton could 'step round'.</p>
            <p>
            <q>You'll do nothing rash, sir,</q>
                entreated
                William.</p>
            <p>
            <q>Why, man,</q> answered the young fellow, <q>one may as well be picked off by a ghost as a bullet. What is there to be afraid of?</q>
         </p>
            <p>William only shook his head. He did not think
                his young master was made of the stuff likely to remain alone in a haunted
                house and solve the mystery it assuredly contained by dint of his
                own unassisted endeavours. And yet when Graham
                    Coulton came out of the landlord's house he looked more bright and gay than usual, and walked up the
                Lambeth road to the place where William awaited
                his return, humming an air as he paced
                along.</p>
            <p>
            <q>We have settled the matter,</q> he said. <q>And now if the dad wants his son for Christmas, it will
                        trouble him to find
                    him.</q>
         </p>
            <p>
            <q>Don't say that, Master Graham, don't,</q>
                entreated the man, with a shiver; <q>maybe after all
                    it would have been better if you had never happened to chance upon Vauxhall
                    Walk.</q>
         </p>
            <p>
            <q>Don't croak, William,</q> answered the young man; <q>if it was not the best day's work I ever did for myself I'm
                    a Dutchman.</q>
         </p>
            <p>During the whole of that forenoon and afternoon, Graham Coulton searched diligently for the missing treasure
                    Mr Tynan assured him had never been
                discovered. Youth is confident and self- opinionated, and this fresh explorer felt
                satisfied that, though others had failed, he would be successful. On the second
                floor he found one door locked, but he
                did not pay much attention to that at the moment, as he believed if there was anything concealed it was more
                likely to be found in the lower than the upper part of the house. Late into the evening he pursued his researches in the kitchen and cellars and
                old-fashioned cupboards, of which the basement had an abundance.</p>
            <p>It was nearly eleven, when, engaged in poking about amongst the empty bins of a wine cellar as large as a family vault,
                he suddenly felt arush
                    of cold
                    air at his back.
                Moving, his candle was instantly
                extinguished, and in the very moment of
                being left in darkness he saw,
                standing in the doorway, a woman, resembling her who had haunted his dreams overnight.</p>
            <p>He rushed with outstretched hands to seize her, but clutched only air. He relit his candle, and closely examined the basement,
                shutting off communication with the ground floor ere doing so. All in vain. Not a
                trace could he find of living creature—not a window was open—not a door unbolted.</p>
            <p>
            <q>It is very
                    odd,</q> he thought, as, after securely fastening the door at the top of
                the staircase, he searched the whole upper portion of the house, with the exception of the one room mentioned.</p>
            <p>
            <q>I must get the key of that tomorrow,</q> he decided,
                standing gloomily with his back to the
                    fire and his eyes
                wandering about the drawing-room,
                where he had once again taken up his abode.</p>
            <p>Even as the thought passed through his mind, he saw standing in the open doorway a
                woman with white
                dishevelled hair, clad in mean
                garments, ragged and dirty. She lifted her hand and shook it at him
                with a menacing gesture, and then, just
                as he was darting towards her, a wonderful thing occurred.</p>
            <p>From behind the great mirror there glided a second female figure, at the sight of
                which the first turned and fled, littering piercing
                shrieks as the other followed her from
                storey to storey.</p>
            <p>Sick almost with terror, Graham Coulton watched the dreadful pair as they fled upstairs past the locked room to the top of the house.</p>
            <p>It was a few minutes before he recovered his self-possession. When he did so, and
                searched the upper apartments, he found them totally empty.</p>
            <p>That night, ere lying down before the fire, he carefully locked and bolted the drawing-room door; before he did more he
                drew the heavy settle in front of it,
                so that if the lock were forced no entrance could be effected without considerable
                noise.</p>
            <p>For some time he lay awake, then dropped into a deep sleep, from which he was awakened suddenly by a noise as if
                of something scuffling stealthily
                behind the wainscot. He raised himself on his elbow and listened, and, to his
                consternation, beheld seated at the opposite side of the hearth the same woman he
                had seen before in his dreams,
                lamenting over her gold.</p>
            <p>The fire was not quite out, and at that moment shot up a last tongue of
                flame. By the light, transient as it
                was, he saw that the figure pressed a ghostly finger to its lips, and by the turn of its head and the
                attitude of its body seemed to be listening.</p>
            <p>He listened also—indeed, he was too much frightened to do aught else; more and more distinct grew the
                sounds which had aroused him, a stealthy
                    rustling coming
                nearer and nearer—up and up it seemed, behind the wainscot.</p>
            <p>
            <q>It is rats,</q> thought the young man, though,
                indeed, his teeth were almost chattering in his head with fear. But then in a moment he saw what disabused him of
                that idea—the gleam of a candle or lamp through a crack in the panelling. He tried
                to rise, he strove to shout—all in vain; and, sinking down, remembered nothing more till he awoke to find the
                    grey
                light of an early morning stealing through one of the shutters he had left partially unclosed.</p>
            <p>For hours after his breakfast, which he scarcely touched, long after William had left him at mid-day, Graham Coulton, having in the morning made a
                long and close survey of the house,
                sat thinking before the fire, then,
                apparently having made up his mind, he put on the hat he had bought, and went
                out.</p>
            <p>When he returned the evening
                shadows were darkening
                down, but the pavements were full of
                people going marketing, for it was Christmas Eve, and all who had money to spend
                seemed bent on shopping.</p>
            <p>It was terribly dreary inside the
                    old
                house that night. Through the deserted rooms Graham
                could feel that ghostly semblance was
                    wandering
                mournfully. When he turned his back he
                knew she was flitting from the mirror to the fire, from the fire
                to the mirror; but he was not afraid of
                her now—he was far more afraid of
                another matter he had taken in hand that day.</p>
            <p>The horror of the silent
                house grew and grew upon him. He could
                hear the beating of his own heart in the dead
                quietude which reigned from garret to
                cellar.</p>
            <p>At last William came; but the young man said
                nothing to him of what was in his mind. He talked to him cheerfully and hopefully
                enough—wondered where his father would think he had got to, and hoped Mr Tynan might send him some Christmas pudding. Then
                the man said it was time for him to go, and, when Mr
                    Coulton went downstairs to the hall-door, remarked the key was not
                in it.</p>
            <p>
            <q>No,</q> was the answer, <q>I took it out today, to oil it.</q>
         </p>
            <p>
            <q>It wanted oiling,</q> agreed William, <q>for it worked terribly
                    stiff.</q> Having uttered which truism he departed.</p>
            <p>Very slowly the young man retraced his
                way to the drawing-room, where he only paused to lock the door on the outside; then
                taking off his boots he went up to the top of the house, where, entering the front attic, he waited patiently in
                    darkness and in silence.</p>
            <p>It was a long time, or at least it seemed long to him, before he heard the same sound
                which had aroused him on the previous night—a stealthy
                    rustling—then
                        arush of
                        cold
                    air—then cautious
                    footsteps—then the quiet opening
                of a door below.</p>
            <p>It did not take as long in action as it has required to tell. In a moment the young
                man was out on the landing and had closed a portion of the panelling on the wall which stood open;
                noiselessly he crept back to the attic window, unlatched it, and sprung a rattle, the sound of which echoed far and near through the deserted streets, then rushing down the stairs, he encountered a man who, darting past
                him, made for the landing above; but perceiving the way of escape closed, fled down again, to find Graham struggling desperately with his fellow.</p>
            <p>
            <q>Give him the knife—come along,</q> he said savagely; and next instant
                Graham
                felt something like a hot
                    iron through his
                    shoulder, and then heard a thud, as one of the men, tripping in his rapid flight, fell from
                the top of the stairs to the bottom.</p>
            <p>At the same moment there came a crash,
                as if the house was falling, and faint, sick, and
                    bleeding, young Coulton lay insensible on the threshold of the room where Miss Tynan had been murdered.</p>
            <p>When he recovered he was in the dining-room, and a doctor was examining his wound. Near the door a policeman stiffly
                kept guard. The hall was full of people; all the misery and vagabondism the streets
                contain at that hour was crowding in to see what had happened.</p>
            <p>Through the midst two men were being conveyed to the station-house; one, with his
                head dreadfully injured, on a
                stretcher, the other handcuffed, uttering frightful imprecations as he went.</p>
            <p>After a time the house was cleared of
                the rabble, the police took possession of it, and Mr
                    Tynan was sent for.</p>
            <p>
            <q>What was that dreadful noise?</q> asked Graham feebly, now seated on
                the floor, with his back resting against the wall.</p>
            <p>
            <q>I do not know. Was there a noise?</q> said Mr Tynan, humouring his fancy, as he thought.</p>
            <p>
                <q>Yes, in the drawing-room, I think; the key is in my
                    pocket.</q>
            </p>
            <p>Still humouring the wounded lad, Mr Tynan took
                the key and ran upstairs.</p>
            <p>When he unlocked the door, what a sight met his eyes! The mirror had fallen—it was lying all over the floor shivered into a thousand pieces; the console table had
                been borne down by its weight, and the
                marble slab was shattered as well. But
                this was not what chained his attention. Hundreds, thousands of gold pieces were
                scattered about, and an aperture behind the glass contained boxes filled with
                securities and deeds and bonds, the possession of which had cost his sister her
                life.</p>
            <p>
            <q>Well, Graham,
                    and what do you want?</q> asked Admiral
                    Coulton that evening
                as his eldest born appeared before him, looking somewhat pale but otherwise unchanged.</p>
            <p>
            <q>I want nothing,</q> was the answer, <q>but to ask your forgiveness. William has told me all the story I never knew before; and, if
                    you let me, I will try to make it up to you for the trouble you have had. I am provided for,</q>
                went on the young fellow, with a nervous laugh; <q>I have made my fortune
                    since I left you, and another man's fortune as well.</q>
         </p>
            <p>
            <q>I think you are out of your senses,</q> said the
                    Admiral shortly.</p>
            <p>
            <q>No, sir, I have found them,</q> was the answer;
                    <q>and I mean to strive and make a better thing of my life than I should ever
                    have done had I not gone to the Old House in Vauxhall Walk.</q>
         </p>
            <p>
                <q>Vauxhall Walk! What is the lad talking about?</q>
            </p>
            
            <p>
            <q>I will tell you, sir, if I may sit down,</q> was Graham Coulton's answer, and then he told his story.</p>
        
      </div>
       <!--#include virtual="inc/VGCC.xhtml"-->
   </body>
</html>
