<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Background of Victorian Ghost Stories</title>
        <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/VGSplash.css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <!--#include virtual="inc/VGNav.xhtml"-->
        <div class="heading">
            <h1>Background</h1>
        </div>
        <div class="w3-container">
            <p> The “Victorian Ghost Stories” project arose out of our team leader, Gabi Keane’s,
                interest in supernatural Victorian literature garnered from <a
                    href="http://twyningvictorianenglitpitt.weebly.com">previous research</a>
                performed at the University of Pittsburgh. Our basic goal was to explore short ghost
                stories written by female English authors during the Victorian Era and uncover some
                unique insight or claim about how they used language to build suspense. After
                concluding that the stories shared structural and thematic elements, we became
                curious as to what “scary words” were used to build suspense and how, if at all, the
                class or education level of the audience impacted the type of vocabulary these
                authors used to communicate. </p>
            <h3>Academic Context and Narrative</h3>
            <p>Many of the assumptions we make about these texts are based on Professor Twyning's
                observations, discussions, and ever-evolving ideas on the Victorian short story.
                After reading and discussing the stories in her class, she developed a five part
                formula for the short ghost story. The five parts were: introduction, protagonist,
                haunting, history, and resolve. The introduction set the stage for the haunting,
                often with a physical description or lengthy exposition. The protagonist section
                introduces a hero; almost always a middle class man who believes the ghost is a
                problem he can solve. The haunting is self-explanatory, but we should note that it
                often involves an unresolved issue of justice. It could be wrongful inheritance or a
                lifetime of neglect, but essentially the ghost is seeking some kind of retribution
                or resolution. History is generally part of the protagonist's desire to solve the
                mystery. In order to move forward, he must understand what went wrong in the life of
                the ghost. The resolve can be an actual resolution, or merely a resignation that the
                ghost will be tormented forever. The narrative structure of Victorian literature we
                used to form these ideas are based mostly on Colin MacCabe’s “Realism and the
                Cinema: Notes on Some Brechtian Theses,” Fredric Jameson’s <i>The Political
                    Unconscious: or Narrative as a Socially Symbolic Act</i>, and (of course) the
                venerable Raymond Williams. When Professor Twyning inevitably writes an article
                explaining these tropes and theories in all their glory, we will gladly link to it
                here.</p>
            <h3>Choosing the Texts</h3>
            <p> For our readings, we selected five short stories from four different authors:
                    <i>Walnut-Tree House</i> and <i>The Old House in Vauxhall Walk by Charlotte
                    Riddell</i>; <i>The Old Nurse’s Story</i> by Elizabeth Gaskell; <i>The Shadow in
                    the Corner</i> by Mary Elizabeth Braddon; and <i>John Charrington’s Wedding</i>
                by Edith Nesbitt. We chose multiple authors to measure for consistency across genres
                as opposed to one particular artist’s breadth of work. We are using this group as
                representative of the genre. While the tropes present in these stories cannot be
                applied to all supernatural fiction of the period, we believe they do represent the
                trends. Note that popular canon writers like Dickens often subvert these tropes (and
                often to great effect).</p>
            <h3>Acknowledgements and Citations</h3>
            <p>Stories by Charlotte Riddell and Elizabeth Gaskell were republished thanks to <a
                    href="https://gothictexts.wordpress.com/">gothictexts.wordpress.com.</a>
                <i>John Charrington’s Wedding</i> by Edith Nesbitt was available for free via <a
                    href="https://www.gutenberg.org/">Project Gutenberg</a>. <i>The Shadow in the
                    Corner</i> was republished with permission from <a
                    href="http://www.gothichorrorstories.com/">gothichorrorstories.com</a>.</p>
            <p>We would like to extend a special thanks to our project mentor, Shannen Davis, as
                well as Professor David Birnbaum from the University of Pittsburgh for teaching us
                the tricks of the trade. </p>
            <p>Princeton University "About WordNet." WordNet. Princeton University. 2010. &lt;http://wordnet.princeton.edu&gt;</p>
        </div>
        <!--#include virtual="inc/VGNavScript.xhtml"-->
        <!--#include virtual="inc/VGCC.xhtml"-->
    </body>
</html>
