<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Conclusions</title>
        <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/VGSplash.css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <!--#include virtual="inc/VGNav.xhtml"-->
        <div class="heading">
            <h1>Conclusion</h1>
        </div>
        <div class="w3-container">

            <h3>Counting Tagged Words by Plot Section</h3>
            <p>We included counts of our tagged words for each plot section to show that some of the
                stories had only four sections. The number of words per section is not necessarily
                indicative of anything, though it generally correlates with the length of the story.
                "Old Nurse's Story" is the longest, while "John Charrington's Wedding" is the
                shortest. The length of the story is an important consideration when considering
                richness, simply because of how it is calculated.</p>
            <p>Except for <i>The Old Nurse’s Story</i>, the “Haunting” section of each ghost story
                contains by far the largest amount of scary words per story. Both <i>John
                    Charrington’s Wedding</i> and <i>The Shadow in the Corner</i> contain eight
                times the number of scary words in this section than in their introductions! Again,
                with the exception of <i>The Old Nurse’s Story</i>, the remaining four follow a
                general trend, building gradual suspense between the “Introduction” and
                “Protagonist” sections, displaying climactic scary word clusters around “Haunting”
                and “History,” and then significantly tapering off the at the “Resolve.” This is
                almost identical to the traditional dramatic structure chart, but with different
                plot points. These general trends may reflect the structure of the genre, but may
                also reflect our preconceived ideas about structure, as we were very conscious of
                those tropes as we did markup.</p>
            <h3>Scariness Value by Story</h3>
            <p>In the “Number of Scary Words per Scariness Rating per Story” graph, we see that most
                stories contain mostly scary words rated 1 or 2 and relatively few intensifiers.
                Including 0 and intensifier ratings, <i>John Charrington’s Wedding</i> contains the
                least amount of <i>possible</i> scary words at 93, while <i>Walnut-Tree House</i>
                contains the most with a whopping 583 possible scary words. The same holds for
                    <i>true</i> scary words—words with scariness ratings of 1-3—with <i>John
                    Charrington’s Wedding</i> coming in at 80 and <i>Walnut-Tree House</i> at 476.
                    <i>The Old Nurse’s Story</i> has 101 scale-3 scary words, making it the
                Victorian ghost story with the highest number of <i>scariest</i> words, while
                    <i>John Charrington’s Wedding</i> again comes in last place with only 23.</p>
            <p>While we have not taken length of story into the data, it's interesting to see that
                there are consistently more scale-1 and scale-2 words per story. Fear, then, is more
                about key moments of suspense, rather than maintaining spookiness throughout.</p>
            <p>We also see a general antipathy toward intensifiers. Whether this was on the part of
                the authors or the taggers is an issue we would like to address. Our markup, while
                complete, lacks some of the objectivity that a second pass reader could offer. </p>
            <h3>Scariness by Part of Speech</h3>
            <p> The scariest type of words per story, according to part of speech, are nouns, with a
                combined total of 99 scale 3 words in all five ghost stories. The least scariest
                type of words are adverbs and modifiers, with combined totals of 4 and 1
                respectively. Adjectives were a close second for scariest word type, with a combined
                total of 90 scale 3 scary words, though we had originally suspected they would take
                the cake. The most action oriented ghost story was <i>The Old Nurse’s Story</i>,
                with 26 scale 3 verbs, while the most passive was <i>John Charrington’s Wedding</i>
                with only 1. </p>
            <h3>Richness of Expression of Scariness</h3>
            <p>Based on our WordNet analysis and the resulting vocabulary richness ratios, the story
                with the greatest diversity in vocabulary is <i>John Charrington’s Wedding</i>. We
                found this particularly interesting in light of the fact that <i>John Charrington’s
                    Wedding</i> is the shortest of the ghost stories in our corpus. It is tempting
                to think that a longer story would include more variation in scary words, but there
                seems to be no direct correlation between the richness of the expression of
                scariness and the length of the story. The story with the lowest vocabulary richness
                ratio is <i>The Shadow in the Corner</i>, which is squarely in the middle in terms
                of length with respect to the other stories. </p>
            <p> Our data indicates that lexical diversity in scary words is most likely a factor of
                literary choices on the part of the writer. For instance, the two ratios of
                vocabulary richness within the closest range of one another are those associated
                with <i>The Old House in Vauxhall Walk</i> and <i>Walnut-Tree House</i>, both
                written by Charlotte Riddell. Some authors are prone to repeating certain words,
                perhaps for emphatic effect, whereas other authors incorporate a wider range of
                chill-inducing vocabulary, engendering suspense by keeping the reader on their toes.</p> 
            <p>The richest story is <i>John Charrington's Wedding</i>, which we've judged to be one of the least
            suspenseful reads.  The ghost is not revealed until the end: the story is sweetly sad rather than terrifying.  It
            can be read as the most narratively complex, and perhaps the most literary story we include.  It also fails to conform to the narrative
            tropes we assigned to it, completely forgoing any substantive resolution for a more broad, interpretive conclusion.  This leads us to believe
            that richness of synsets may correlate positively with what we call "literary value," a quality which we can't really encode.</p>
            <p>Were we to expand our data to include ghost stories of canonical literary value, like those from Dickens, we hypothesize the richness of language ratio would
                be comparatively high.  This hypothesis also leads to historicist questions of class and gender politics, as vocabulary richness may be indicative of
                education level of the audience or author.
          </p>
            <h3>Conclusion</h3>
            <p>From our current data, we find that female authors writing Victorian ghost stories
                typically built suspense in two ways: (1) With a standardized plot structure; and
                (2) by using scary adjectives to describe scary nouns. In the Victorian ghost story
                plot, action gradually rises until the ghost appears, where it climaxes and then
                slowly dissolves as the protagonist finds some way to bring peace the situation.
                Despite the genre-specific tropes of "Haunting," "History," and "Protagonist," this
                more or less the pattern of most stories in the Western tradition. At a syntactic
                level, the norm seems to be to focus on the ghost or haunted house itself as the
                object of fear, increasing tension through describing its features and, to a lesser
                extent, by what the object actually does. This perhaps made the stories more
                accessible to middle-class readers, the authors relying more heavily on sensory,
                visceral details than deeply intellectual content. This does not imply that these
                stories were "dumbed down," but rather that they were meant to be more physically
                frightening, creating a sense of urgency and tangibility in the ethereal. </p>
            <p> While it’s hard to declare objectively which of our five stories is indeed the
                scariest, we can make a few modest measurements. <i>Walnut-Tree House</i> has the
                highest number of scary words, but the words <i>The Old Nurse’s Story</i> uses are
                    <i>scarier</i>. <i>John Charrington’s Wedding</i> is by far the shortest text,
                but displays the greatest increase in scariness from its “Introduction” to
                “Haunting” sections relative to its size. Perhaps he’d like to step out of his grave
                and claim the prize?</p>
        </div>
        <!--#include virtual="inc/VGNavScript.xhtml"-->
        <!--#include virtual="inc/VGCC.xhtml"-->
    </body>
</html>
