<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Methodology</title>
        <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/VGSplash.css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <!--#include virtual="inc/VGNav.xhtml"-->
        <div class="heading">
            <h1>Methodology</h1>
        </div>
        <div class="w3-container">
            <p> The “Victorian Ghost Stories” project attempts to answer the following research
                question: In what ways did female authors use language to build suspense in the
                Victorian ghost story? Our research topic involved the fields of literature,
                history, linguistics, and digital research methods. Our approach required textual
                analysis, XML language tools, and the WordNet lexical database. </p>
            <p> For our readings, we selected five short stories from four different authors:
                    <i>Walnut-Tree House</i> and <i>The Old House in Vauxhall Walk</i> by Charlotte
                Riddell; <i>The Old Nurse’s Story</i> by Elizabeth Gaskell; <i>The Shadow in the
                    Corner</i> by Mary Elizabeth Braddon; and <i>John Charrington’s Wedding</i> by
                Edith Nesbitt. This range generated enough data to compare contemporary texts with
                different writing styles without sacrificing our ability to perform in depth textual
                analysis on each individual story. Our model is applicable to larger samples of
                ghost stories, however, should future digital humanists desire to expound upon our
                research. </p>
            <p> After deciding upon our research question and selecting stories, we next performed a
                close read and analysis of each text to determine our methodology for markup. We
                decided that the focus of our exploration should be to find “scary words” and rate
                them according to <i>scariness</i>, <i>part of speech</i>, and <i>synset</i>, so
                that we could determine not only what scary language was used, but also in what ways
                its scariness and frequency affected the stories. We accomplished this by compiling
                a list of 286 unique scary words that we then tagged in each text they occurred. The
                scariness rating was determined by @scale attributes ranging from 0-3, with the
                additional rating of “i” for intensifiers like “very” or “quite.” Scary words with a
                scale of 0 had the potential to ignite fear, but were not so used in context, like
                the words “black” or “cold.” These words could receive higher ratings when
                appropriate. Scary words with a scale of 3 were the scariest and therefore always
                scary, like “horror” or “deadly.” This was the most subjective part of the project,
                though we gave ourselves parameters in that we drew from an agreed upon list. </p>
            <p> Part of speech was measured with attribute @pos, with the available options of verb,
                noun, adjective, adverb, or modifier. We were curious about the way in which
                scariness was communicated, and this allowed us to see it at a grammatical, literary
                level. Is scariness more descriptive, such that the most frequent type of scary
                words are adjectives? Or is it more action based, such that they are verbs? This
                data influenced our conclusion, adding another level of specificity to our research
                question. </p>
            <p> As one of our team members had a linguistics requirement to fill, we also explored
                our scary word elements using the WordNet lexical database. WordNet is a
                hierarchical organization of units of meaning, called <i>synsets</i>, which are
                represented in texts by words. A detailed explanation of how synsets can be used to
                explore a text can be found <a
                    href="https://github.com/djbpitt/wordnet/blob/master/Wordnet.ipynb">here.</a>
                Our project in particular focused on task number three, “Exploring the richness of
                the expression of spookiness.” We concentrated the task on the “haunting” plot
                section of each ghost story, expecting that this specific section would incorporate
                the most significant amount of scary vocabulary. After tagging each scary word
                element in the haunting sections with its appropriate synset in context, we were
                able to examine the language that different writers and texts employ to represent
                scariness. We performed this linguistic investigation by dividing the number of
                distinct synsets by the number of scary words with a non-zero scariness rating. The resulting value for each text provides a ratio,
                for which a higher value indicates that scariness is expressed in a wider variety of
                morphological ways, whereas a lower value indicates less variety in vocabulary. </p>
            <p> After tagging all of our scary words, we then measured the <i>number of scary
                    words</i> with a rating of "3" by <i>part of speech</i> in each story using
                XSLT. We represent this data in SVG bar graphs. We also measure the placement of
                scary words to determine exactly where these authors built suspense. Do more scary
                words appear in the beginning of the story, or near the end? Are scarier words
                clustered together? As mentioned in our synset methodology, we divided the text into
                five plot points—"introduction," "protagonist," "history," "haunting," and
                "resolve"—and represented our data using XSLT and EXide to create an SVG bubble
                chart. </p>
            <p> These plot points were attributes of the empty element plot, which we used as a
                milestone in our markup. "Introduction" represents the introduction to the story,
                where the setting and scenario is established. "Protagonist" signifies the
                introduction of the main character, which has a unique trope in Victorian ghost
                stories. "History" signifies the moment when a character begins recounting the
                history of the ghost to the protagonist. "Haunting" signifies the beginning of the
                ghost’s actual haunting of the protagonist. "Resolve" occurs when the protagonist
                begins looking for a way to resolve the situation, usually bringing peace to the
                troubled ghost by righting some wrong that was done to it. Using these elements as
                milestones, we were able to determine whart types of scary words each section
                contained, how scary those words were, and how often they appeared. Visualizations
                for our findings is shown in detail on our <a
                    href="http://ghost.obdurodon.org/analysis.xhtml">analysis page</a>. </p>
        </div>
        <!--#include virtual="inc/VGNavScript.xhtml"-->
        <!--#include virtual="inc/VGCC.xhtml"-->
    </body>
</html>
