<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title>John Charrington's Wedding</title>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/VGSplash.css"/>
   </head>
   <body>
      <div>
         <h1>John Charrington's Wedding</h1>
         <h2>Edith Nesbitt</h2>
      </div>
      <div xmlns="" class="w3-container">
         <p>No one ever thought that May Forster would marry
                John Charrington; but he thought
            differently, and things which John
                Charrington intended had a queer way of coming to pass. He asked her to marry him before he went
            up to Oxford. She laughed and refused him. He asked her again next time he came home.
            Again she laughed, tossed her dainty
            blonde head, and again refused. A third time he asked her; she said it was becoming a
            confirmed bad habit, and laughed at him
            more than ever.</p>
         <p>John was not the only man who wanted to
            marry her: she was the belle of our village coterie, and we were all in love with her
            more or less; it was a sort of fashion, like heliotrope ties or Inverness capes.
            Therefore we were as much annoyed as surprised when John Charrington walked into our little local Club—we held it in a loft
            over the saddler's, I remember—and invited us all to his wedding.</p>
         <p>
            <q>Your wedding?</q>
         </p>
         <p>
            <q>You don't mean it?</q>
         </p>
         <p>
            <q>Who's the happy fair? When's it to be?</q>
         </p>
         <p>John Charrington filled his pipe and lighted
            it before he replied. Then he said—</p>
         <p>
            <q>I'm sorry to deprive you fellows of your only joke—but
                    Miss Forster and I are to be married in
                September.</q>
         </p>
         <p>
            <q>You don't mean it?</q>
         </p>
         <p>
            <q>He's got the mitten again, and it's turned his head.</q>
         </p>
         <p>
            <q>No,</q> I said, rising, <q>I see it's
                true. Lend me a pistol some one—or a first-class fare to the other end of Nowhere.
                Charrington has bewitched the only pretty girl in our twenty-mile radius. Was it
                mesmerism, or a love-potion, Jack?</q>
         </p>
         <p>
            <q>Neither, sir, but a gift you'll never have—perseverance—and
                the best luck a man ever had in this world.</q>
         </p>
         <p>There was something in his voice that
            silenced me, and all chaff of the other fellows failed to draw him further.</p>
         <p>The queer thing about it was that when we congratulated Miss
                Forster, she blushed and smiled and dimpled, for all the world as though
            she were in love with him, and had been in love with him all the time. Upon my word, I
            think she had. Women are strange
            creatures.</p>
         <p>We were all asked to the wedding. In Brixham every one who was anybody knew everybody
            else who was any one. My sisters were, I truly believe, more interested in the trousseau
            than the bride herself, and I was to be best man. The coming marriage was much canvassed
            at afternoon tea-tables, and at our little Club over the saddler's, and the question was
            always asked: <q>Does she care for him?</q>
         </p>
         <p>I used to ask that question myself in the early days of their engagement, but after a
            certain evening in August I never asked it
            again. I was coming home from the Club through the churchyard. Our church is on a
            thyme-grown hill, and the turf about it is so thick and soft that one's footsteps are noiseless.</p>
         <p>I made no sound as I vaulted the low lichened wall, and threaded my way between the
            tombstones. It was at the same instant
            that I heard John Charrington's
            voice, and saw Her. May was sitting on a low flat gravestone, her face turned towards the full splendour of
            the western sun. Its expression ended, at once and for ever, any question of love for
            him; it was transfigured to a beauty I should not have believed possible, even to that
            beautiful little face.</p>
         <p>John lay at her feet, and it was his
                voice that broke the stillness of the golden August evening.</p>
         <p>
            <q>My dear, my dear, I believe I should come
                    back from the dead
                if you wanted me!</q>
         </p>
         <p>I coughed at once to indicate my presence, and passed on into the shadow fully enlightened.</p>
         <p>The wedding was to be early in September. Two days before I had to run up to town on
            business. The train was late, of course, for we are on the South-Eastern, and as I stood
            grumbling with my watch in my hand, whom should I see but John Charrington and May Forster. They were walking up and down the unfrequented end of the
            platform, arm in arm, looking into each other's eyes, careless of the sympathetic interest of the porters.</p>
         <p>Of course I knew better than to hesitate a moment before burying myself in the
            booking-office, and it was not till the train drew up at the platform, that I
            obtrusively passed the pair with my Gladstone, and took the corner in a first-class
            smoking-carriage. I did this with as good an air of not seeing them as I could assume. I
            pride myself on my discretion, but if John
            were travelling alone I wanted his company.
            I had it.</p>
         <p>
            <q>Hullo, old man,</q> came his cheery voice as he swung his bag into my carriage;
                <q>here's luck; I was expecting a dull journey!</q>
         </p>
         <p>
            <q>Where are you off to?</q> I asked, discretion still bidding
            me turn my eyes away, though I saw,
            without looking, that hers were red-rimmed.</p>
         <p>
            <q>To old Branbridge's,</q> he answered, shutting the door and leaning out
            for a last word with his sweetheart.</p>
         <p>
            <q>Oh, I wish you wouldn't go, John,</q> she was saying in a low, earnest voice. <q>I feel certain
                something will happen.</q>
         </p>
         <p>
            <q>Do you think I should let anything happen to keep me, and
                the day after to-morrow our wedding-day?</q>
         </p>
         <p>
            <q>Don't go,</q> she answered, with a pleading intensity which
            would have sent my Gladstone on to the platform and me after it. But she wasn't speaking
            to me. John Charrington was made
            differently; he rarely changed his opinions, never his resolutions.</p>
         <p>He only stroked the little ungloved hands that lay on the carriage door.</p>
         <p>
            <q>I must, May. The
                old boy's been awfully good to me, and
                now he's dying I must go and see him,
                but I shall come home in time for——</q> the rest of the parting was lost in a whisper and in the rattling lurch of the starting train.</p>
         <p>
            <q>You're sure to come?</q> she spoke as the train moved.</p>
         <p>
            <q>Nothing shall keep me,</q> he answered; and we steamed
            out. After he had seen the last of the little figure on the platform he leaned back in
            his corner and kept silence for a minute.</p>
         <p>When he spoke it was to explain to me that his godfather, whose heir he was, lay
                dying at Peasmarsh Place, some fifty
            miles away, and had sent for John, and
                John had felt bound to go.</p>
         <p>
            <q>I shall be surely back to-morrow,</q> he said, <q>or, if not, the day after, in heaps of time. Thank Heaven, one
                hasn't to get up in the middle of the night to get married nowadays!</q>
         </p>
         <p>
            <q>And suppose Mr. Branbridge
                dies?</q>
         </p>
         <p>
            <q>Alive or dead I mean to be married on Thursday!</q>
            John answered, lighting a cigar and
            unfolding the Times.</p>
         <p>At Peasmarsh station we said <q>good-bye,</q> and he got
            out, and I saw him ride off; I went on to London, where I stayed the night.</p>
         <p>When I got home the next afternoon, a very
            wet one, by the way, my sister greeted me with—</p>
         <p>
            <q>Where's Mr.
                Charrington?</q>
         </p>
         <p>
            <q>Goodness knows,</q> I answered testily. Every man, since
            Cain, has resented that kind of question.</p>
         <p>
            <q>I thought you might have heard from him,</q> she went on,
                <q>as you're to give him away to-morrow.</q>
         </p>
         <p>
            <q>Isn't he back?</q> I asked, for I had confidently expected to
            find him at home.</p>
         <p>
            <q>No, Geoffrey,</q>—my
                sisterFanny always had a way of jumping to
            conclusions, especially such conclusions as were least favourable to her
                fellow-creatures—<q>he has not returned, and, what is more, you may
                depend upon it he won't. You mark my words, there'll be no wedding
                to-morrow.</q>
         </p>
         <p>My sister Fanny has a power of annoying me which no other human being possesses.</p>
         <p>
            <q>You mark my words,</q> I retorted with asperity, <q>you had better give up making such a thundering idiot of yourself. There'll be more wedding to-morrow
                than ever you'll take the first part in.</q> A prophecy which, by the way, came true.</p>
         <p>But though I could snarl confidently to my sister, I did not feel so comfortable when,
            late that night, I, standing on the
            doorstep of John's house, heard that he had not returned. I went home
                gloomily through the rain. Next morning brought a brilliant blue
                sky, gold sun, and all such softness
            of air and beauty of cloud as go to make
            up a perfect day. I woke with a vague feeling of having gone to bed anxious, and of
            being rather averse to facing that anxiety in the light of full wakefulness.</p>
         <p>But with my shaving-water came a note from John which relieved my mind and sent me up to the Forsters' with a
            light heart.</p>
         <p>May was in the garden. I saw her blue gown
            through the hollyhocks as the lodge gates
            swung to behind me. So I did not go up to the house, but turned aside down the turfed path.</p>
         <p>
            <q>He's written to you too,</q> she said, without preliminary
            greeting, when I reached her side.</p>
         <p>
            <q>Yes, I'm to meet him at the station at three, and come straight on
                to the church.</q>
         </p>
         <p>Her face looked pale, but there was a
            brightness in her eyes, and a tender
            quiver about the mouth that spoke of renewed happiness.</p>
         <p>
            <q>Mr. Branbridge begged
                him so to stay another night that he
                had not the heart to refuse,</q> she went on. <q>He is so
                kind, but I wish he hadn't stayed.</q>
         </p>
         <p>I was at the station at half-past two. I felt rather annoyed with John. It seemed a sort of slight to the beautiful
            girl who loved him, that he should come as it were out of breath, and with the dust of
            travel upon him, to take her hand, which some of us would have given the best years of
            our lives to take.</p>
         <p>But when the three o'clock train glided in, and glided out again having brought no
            passengers to our little station, I was more than annoyed. There was no other train for
            thirty-five minutes; I calculated that, with much hurry, we might just get to the church
            in time for the ceremony; but, oh, what a fool to miss that first train! What other man
            could have done it?</p>
         <p>That thirty-five minutes seemed a year, as I wandered round the station reading the
            advertisements and the time-tables, and the company's bye-laws, and getting more and
            more angry with John Charrington. This confidence in his own power
            of getting everything he wanted the minute he wanted it was leading him too far. I
                hate waiting. Every one does, but I
            believe I hate it more than any one else.
            The three thirty-five was late, of course.</p>
         <p>I ground my pipe between my teeth and stamped with impatience as I watched the signals.
            Click. The signal went down. Five minutes later I flung myself into the carriage that I
            had brought for John.</p>
         <p>
            <q>Drive to the church!</q> I said, as some one shut the door.
                <q>Mr. Charrington
                hasn't come by this train.</q>
         </p>
         <p>Anxiety now replaced anger. What had become of the man? Could he have been taken suddenly
                ill? I had never known him have a
            day's illness in his life. And even so he
            might have telegraphed. Some awful accident
            must have happened to him. The thought that he had played her false never—no, not for a
            moment—entered my head. Yes, something terrible had happened to him, and on me lay the task of telling his
            bride. I almost wished the carriage would upset and break my head so that some one else
            might tell her, not I, who—but that's nothing to do with his story.</p>
         <p>It was five minutes to four as we drew up at the churchyard gate. A double row of eager on-lookers lined the path from
            lychgate to porch. I sprang from the carriage and passed up between them. Our gardener
            had a good front place near the door. I stopped.</p>
         <p>
            <q>Are they waiting still, Byles?</q> I asked, simply to gain time, for of course I knew they
            were by the waiting crowd's attentive attitude.</p>
         <p>
            <q>Waiting, sir? No, no, sir; why, it must be over by now.</q>
         </p>
         <p>
            <q>Over! Then Mr.
                    Charrington's come?</q>
         </p>
         <p>
            <q>To the minute, sir; must have missed you somehow, and, I say,
                sir,</q> lowering his voice,
                <q>I never see Mr. John the least bit so afore, but my opinion is he's been drinking
                pretty free. His clothes was all dusty and his face like a sheet. I tell you I
                didn't like the looks of him at all, and the folks inside are saying all sorts of
                things. You'll see, something's gone very wrong with Mr. John,
                and he's tried liquor. He looked like a ghost, and in he went with his
                    eyes straight before him, with
                never a look or a word for none of us; him that was always such a
                gentleman!</q>
         </p>
         <p>I had never heard Byles make so long a speech. The
            crowd in the churchyard were talking in whispers and getting ready rice and slippers to throw at the bride and
            bridegroom. The ringers were ready with their hands on the ropes to ring out the merry
            peal as the bride and bridegroom should come out.</p>
         <p>A murmur from the church announced them; out they came. Byles was right. John
                Charrington did not look himself. There was dust on his coat, his hair
            was disarranged. He seemed to have been in some row, for there was a black mark above his eyebrow. He was
                    deathly
                pale. But his pallor was
            not greater than that of the bride, who might have been carved in ivory—dress, veil,
            orange blossoms, face and all.</p>
         <p>As they passed out the ringers stooped—there were six of them—and then, on the ears
            expecting the gay wedding peal, came the slow
                tolling of the passing bell.</p>
         <p>A thrill of horror at so foolish a jest
            from the ringers passed through us all. But the ringers themselves dropped the ropes and
            fled like rabbits out into the sunlight. The bride shuddered, and grey
                shadows came about her
            mouth, but the bridegroom led her on down the path where the people stood with the
            handfuls of rice; but the handfuls were never thrown, and the wedding-bells never rang.
            In vain the ringers were urged to remedy their mistake: they protested with many
                whispered expletives that they would
            see themselves further first.</p>
         <p>In a hush like the
                    hush in the chamber of death the bridal pair passed into their carriage and its door slammed behind them.</p>
         <p>Then the tongues were loosed. A babel of anger, wonder, conjecture from the guests and
            the spectators.</p>
         <p>
            <q>If I'd seen his condition, sir,</q> said old Forster to me as we drove off, <q>I would have stretched him on the floor of the church, sir, by
                Heaven I would, before I'd have let him marry my daughter!</q>
         </p>
         <p>Then he put his head out of the window.</p>
         <p>
            <q>Drive like hell,</q> he cried
            to the coachman; <q>don't spare the horses.</q>
         </p>
         <p>He was obeyed. We passed the bride's carriage. I forebore to look at it, and old Forster turned his head away and swore. We reached
            home before it.</p>
         <p>We stood in the hall doorway, in the blazing afternoon sun, and in about half a minute we
            heard wheels crunching the gravel. When the carriage stopped in front of the steps old
            Forster and I ran down.</p>
         <p>
            <q>Great Heaven, the carriage is empty! And yet——</q>
         </p>
         <p>I had the door open in a minute, and this is what I saw—</p>
         <p>No sign of John Charrington;
                and of May, his wife, only a
                    huddled
                heap of white satin lying half on the floor of the carriage and
                half on the seat.</p>
         <p>
            <q>I drove straight here, sir,</q> said the coachman, as the bride's father lifted her out; <q>and I'll swear no one got out of the carriage.</q>
         </p>
         <p>We carried her into the house in her bridal
            dress and drew back her veil. I saw her face. Shall I ever forget it? White, white and drawn with agony and horror,
            bearing such a look of terror as I have
            never seen since except in dreams. And her
            hair, her radiant blonde hair, I tell you it was white like snow.</p>
         <p>As we stood, her father and I, half mad with
            the horror and mystery of it, a boy came up the avenue—a telegraph boy.
            They brought the orange envelope to me. I tore it open.</p>
         <p>"Mr. Charrington was thrown from the dogcart
            on his way to the station at half-past one. Killed on the spot!"</p>
         <p>And he was married to May Forster in our parish
            church at half-past three, in presence of half the parish.</p>
         <p>
            <q>I shall be married, dead or alive!</q>
         </p>
         <p>What had passed in that carriage on the homeward drive? No one knows—no one will ever
            know. Oh, May! oh, my dear!</p>
         <p>Before a week was over they laid her beside her husband in our little churchyard on the
            thyme-covered hill—the churchyard where they had kept their love-trysts.</p>
         <p>Thus was accomplished John Charrington's
            wedding.</p>
      </div>
   </body>
</html>
