<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html
  SYSTEM "about:legacy-compat">
<html>
   <head>
      <title>The Shadow in the Corner</title>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="VGSplash.css"/>
   </head>
   <body>
      <div>
         <h1>The Shadow in the Corner</h1>
         <h2>Mary Elizabeth Braddon</h2>
      </div>
      <div>
         <p>Wildheath Grange stood a little way back from the road, with a barren stretch of heath behind it, and a few tall
            fir-trees, with straggling
            wind-tossed heads, for its only shelter. It
            was a lonely
            house on a lonely road, little better than a lane, leading across a desolate
            waste of sandy fields to the sea-shore;
            and it was a house that bore a bad name among the natives of the village of
            Holcroft, which was the nearest place where humanity might be found.</p>
         <p>It was a good old
            house, nevertheless, substantially built
            in the days when there was no stint of stone and timber–a good old
            grey stone house with many gables,
                deep window-seats, and a  wide staircase, long
            dark
            passages, hidden
            doors in queer corners, closets as large as some modern rooms, and cellars in
            which a company of soldiers might have lain perdu.</p>
         <p>This spacious old mansion was given over to
                rats and mice, loneliness, echoes, and
            the occupation of three elderly people: Michael
                Bascom, whose forebears had been landowners of importance in the
            neighbourhood, and his two servants, Daniel
                Skegg and his wife, who had served the owner of that grim
            old
            house ever since he left the university,
            where he had lived fifteen years of his life–five as student, and ten as professor of
            natural science.</p>
         <p>At three-and-thirty Michael Bascom had seemed
            a middle-aged man; at fifty-six he looked and moved and spoke like an old man. During that interval of twenty-three years
            he had lived alone in Wildheath Grange, and
            the country people told each other that the house had made him what he was. This was a fanciful and superstitious
            notion on their part, doubtless, yet it would not have been difficult to have traced a
            certain affinity between the dull
            grey building and the man who lived in it.
            Both seemed alike remote from the common cares and interests of humanity; both had an
            air of settled melancholy, engendered by
            perpetual solitude; both had the same faded
            complexion, the same look of slow
            decay.</p>
         <p>Yet lonely as Michael Bascom’s life was at
            Wildheath Grange, he would not on any account have altered its tenor. He had been glad
            to exchange the comparative seclusion of college rooms for the unbroken solitude of Wildheath. He was a fanatic in his love
            of scientific research, and his quiet days were filled to the brim with labours that
            seldom failed to interest and satisfy him. There were periods of depression, occasional
            moments of doubt, when the goal towards which he strove seemed unattainable, and his
            spirit fainted within him. Happily such times were rare with him. He had a dogged power
            of continuity which ought to have carried him to the highest pinnacle of achievement,
            and which perhaps might ultimately have won for him a grand name and a world-wide
            renown, but for a catastrophe which burdened the declining years of his harmless life
            with an unconquerable remorse.</p>
         <p>One autumn morning–when he had lived just three-and-twenty years at Wildheath, and had
            only lately begun to perceive that his faithful butler and body servant, who was
            middle-aged when he first employed him, was actually getting old–Mr. Bascom’s
            breakfast meditations over the latest treatise on the atomic theory were interrupted by
            an abrupt demand from that very
            Daniel Skegg. The man was accustomed to wait
            upon his master in the most absolute silence, and his sudden breaking out into speech was almost as
            startling as if the bust of Socrates above the bookcase had burst into human
            language.</p>
         <p>
            <q>It’s no use,</q> said
                Daniel; <q>my missus must have a
            girl!</q>
         </p>
         <p>
            <q>A what?</q> demanded Mr.
                Bascom, without taking his eyes from the line he had been reading.</p>
         <p>
            <q>A girl–a girl to trot about and wash up, and help the
                    old lady. She’s getting weak on her
                legs, poor soul. We’ve none of us grown
                younger in the last twenty years.</q>
         </p>
         <p>
            <q>Twenty years!</q> echoed Michael Bascom scornfully. <q>What is twenty
                years in the formation of a strata–what even in the growth of an oak–the cooling of
                a volcano!</q>
         </p>
         <p>
            <q>Not much, perhaps, but it’s apt to tell upon the bones of a
                human being.</q>
         </p>
         <p>
            <q>The manganese staining to be seen upon some skulls would
                certainly indicate—-</q> began the scientist dreamily.</p>
         <p>
            <q>I wish my bones were only as free from rheumatics as they were
                twenty years ago,</q> pursued Daniel
            testily; <q>and then, perhaps, I should make light of twenty
                years. Howsoever, the long and the short of it is, my missus must have a girl. She
                can’t go on trotting up and down these everlasting passages, and standing in that
                stone scullery year after year, just as if she was a young woman. She must have a
                girl to help.</q>
         </p>
         <p>
            <q>Let her have twenty girls,</q> said Mr. Bascom, going back to his book.</p>
         <p>
            <q>What’s the use of talking like that, sir. Twenty girls, indeed!
                We shall have rare work to get one.</q>
         </p>
         <p>
            <q>Because the neighbourhood is sparsely populated?</q>
            interrogated Mr. Bascom, still reading.</p>
         <p>
            <q>No, sir. Because this house is known to be haunted.</q>
         </p>
         <p>Michael Bascom laid down his book, and turned
            a look of grave reproach upon his
            servant.</p>
         <p>
            <q>Skegg,</q> he said in a severe voice, <q>I thought you had lived long
                enough with me to be superior to any folly of that kind.</q>
         </p>
         <p>
            <q>I don’t say that I believe in ghosts,</q> answered
                Daniel with a semi-apologetic air; <q>but the
                country people do. There’s not a mortal among ’em that will venture across our
                threshold after nightfall.</q>
         </p>
         <p>
            <q>Merely because Anthony
                    Bascom, who led a wild
                life in London, and lost his money and
                land, came home here broken-hearted,
                and is supposed to have destroyed himself in this house–the only remnant of property that was left him out of a fine
                estate.</q>
         </p>
         <p>
            <q>Supposed to have destroyed himself!</q> cried Skegg; <q>why the fact is as
                well known as the death of Queen Elizabeth, or the great fire of London. Why, wasn’t
                he buried at the cross-roads between
                here and Holcroft?</q>
         </p>
         <p>
            <q>An idle tradition, for which you could produce no substantial
                proof,</q> retorted Mr. Bascom.</p>
         <p>
            <q>I don’t know about proof; but the country people believe it as
                firmly as they believe their Gospel.</q>
         </p>
         <p>
            <q>If their faith in the Gospel was a little stronger they need
                not trouble themselves about
                    Anthony Bascom.</q>
         </p>
         <p>
            <q>Well,</q> grumbled
                Daniel, as he began to clear the table, <q>a girl
                of some kind we must get, but she’ll have to be a foreigner, or a girl that’s hard
                driven for a place.</q>
         </p>
         <p>When Daniel Skegg said a foreigner, he did not
            mean the native of some distant clime, but a girl who had not been born and bred at
                Holcroft. Daniel had been raised and reared
            in that insignificant hamlet, and, small and dull as it was, he considered the world beyond it only margin.</p>
         <p>Michael Bascom was too deep in the atomic
            theory to give a second thought to the necessities of an old servant. Mrs. Skegg was an
            individual with whom he rarely came in contact. She lived for the most part in a
                gloomy region at the north end of the
                house, where she ruled over the
                solitude of a kitchen, that looked like
            a cathedral, and numerous offices of the sculler, larder, and pantry class, where she
            carried on a perpetual warfare with spiders and beetles, and wore her old life out in the labour of sweeping and
            scrubbing. She was a woman of severe
            aspect, dogmatic piety, and a bitter tongue. She was a good plain cook, and ministered
            diligently to her master’s wants. He was not an epicure, but liked his life to be smooth
            and easy, and the equilibrium of his mental power would have been disturbed by a
                bad dinner.</p>
         <p>He heard no more about the proposed addition to his household for a space of ten days, when Daniel Skegg again startled him amidst his studious repose by the
            abrupt announcement:</p>
         <p>
            <q>I’ve got a girl!</q>
         </p>
         <p>
            <q>Oh,</q> said Michael
                Bascom; <q>have you?</q> and he went on
            with his book.</p>
         <p>This time he was reading an essay on phosphorus and its functions in relation to the
            human brain.</p>
         <p>
            <q>Yes,</q> pursued
                Daniel in his usual grumbling tone; <q>she was a
                waif and stray, or I shouldn’t have got her. If she’d been a native she’d never have
                come to us.</q>
         </p>
         <p>
            <q>I hope she’s respectable,</q> said Michael.</p>
         <p>
            <q>Respectable! That’s the only fault she has, poor thing. She’s too good for the place. She’s
                never been in service before, but she says she’s willing to work, and I daresay my
                    old woman will be able to break her
                in. Her father was a small tradesman at Yarmouth. He died a month ago, and left this
                    poor thing homeless. Mrs. Midge, at
                Holcroft, is her aunt, and she said to the girl, Come and stay with me till you get
                a place; and the girl has been staying with Mrs. Midge for the last three weeks,
                trying to hear of a place. When Mrs. Midge heard that my missus wanted a girl to
                help, she thought it would be the very
                thing for her niece Maria. Luckily Maria had heard nothing about this house, so the poor innocent dropped me a curtsey, and said she’d be thankful to
                come, and would do her best to learn her duty. She’d had an easy time of it with her
                father, who had educated her above her station, like a fool as he was,</q>
                growled Daniel.</p>
         <p>
            <q>By your own account I’m afraid you’ve made a bad bargain,</q> said Michael. <q>You don’t want a young lady to clean kettles and pans.</q>
         </p>
         <p>
            <q>If she was a young duchess my old woman would make her work,</q> retorted Skegg decisively.</p>
         <p>
            <q>And pray where are you going to put this girl?</q> asked
                Mr. Bascom, rather irritably; <q>I can’t have a strange young woman tramping up and down the passages outside my
                room. You know what a wretched sleeper I am, Skegg. A mouse behind the wainscot is enough to wake
            me.</q>
         </p>
         <p>
            <q>I’ve thought of that,</q> answered the butler, with his
            look of ineffable wisdom. <q>I’m not going to put her on your
                floor. She’s to sleep in the attics.</q>
         </p>
         <p>
            <q>Which room?</q>
         </p>
         <p>
            <q>The big one at the north end of the house. That’s the only ceiling that doesn’t let water.
                She might as well sleep in a shower-bath as in any of the other attics.</q>
         </p>
         <p>
            <q>The room at the north end,</q>
            repeated
            Mr. Bascom thoughtfully; <q>isn’t that—-?</q>
         </p>
         <p>
            <q>Of course it is,</q> snapped Skegg; <q>but she doesn’t know anything about
                it.</q>
         </p>
         <p>Mr. Bascom went back to his books, and forgot
            all about the orphan from Yarmouth, until one morning on entering his study he was
            startled by the appearance of a strange
            girl, in a neat black and white cotton gown, busy dusting the volumes which were stacked
            in blocks upon his spacious writing-table–and doing it with such deft and careful hands
            that he had no inclination to be angry at this unwonted liberty. Old
            Mrs. Skegg had religiously refrained from all such
            dusting, on the plea that she did not wish to interfere with the master’s ways. One of
            the master’s ways, therefore, had been to inhale a good deal of dust in the course of
            his studies.</p>
         <p>The girl was a slim little thing, with a pale and somewhat old-fashioned face, flaxen hair, braided under a neat muslin cap, a
                very fair complexion, and light blue
            eyes. They were the lightest blue eyes Michael
                Bascom had ever seen, but there was a sweetness and gentleness in their
            expression which atoned for their insipid colour.</p>
         <p>
            <q>I hope you do not object to my dusting your books, sir,</q> she
            said, dropping a curtsey.</p>
         <p>She spoke with a quaint precision which struck Michael
                Bascom as a pretty thing in its way.</p>
         <p>
            <q>No; I don’t object to cleanliness, so long as my books and
                papers are not disturbed. If you take a volume off my desk, replace it on the spot
                you took it from. That’s all I ask.</q>
         </p>
         <p>
            <q>I will be very careful,
                sir.</q>
         </p>
         <p>
            <q>When did you come here?</q>
         </p>
         <p>
            <q>Only this morning, sir.</q>
         </p>
         <p>The student seated himself at his desk, and the girl withdrew, drifting out of the room
            as noiselessly as a flower blown across the threshold. Michael Bascom looked after her curiously. He had seen very little of youthful womanhood in his dry-as-dust career, and he
            wondered at this girl as at a creature of a species hitherto unknown to him. How fairly
            and delicately she was fashioned; what a translucent skin; what soft and pleasing
            accents issued from those rose-tinted lips. A pretty thing, assuredly, this kitchen
            wench! A pit that in all this busy world there could be no better work found for her
            than the scouring of pots and pans.</p>
         <p>Absorbed in considerations about dry bones, Mr.
                Bascom thought no more of the pale-faced handmaiden. He saw her no more about his rooms. Whatever
            work she did there was done early in the morning, before the scholar’s breakfast.</p>
         <p>She had been a week in the house, when he
            met her one day in the hall. He was struck by the change in her appearance.</p>
         <p>The girlish lips had lost their rose-bud
            hue; the pale blue eyes had a frightened look, and there were dark rings round
            them, as in one whose nights had been sleepless, or troubled
            by evil
            dreams.</p>
         <p>Michael Bascom was so startled by an
                undefinable look in the girl’s face
            that, reserved as he was by habit and nature, he expanded so far as to ask her what
                ailed her.</p>
         <p>
            <q>There is something amiss, I am sure,</q> he said.
                <q>What is it?</q>
         </p>
         <p>
            <q>Nothing, sir,</q> she faltered, looking still more scared at his question. <q>Indeed, it is nothing; or nothing worth troubling you about.</q>
         </p>
         <p>
            <q>Nonsense. Do you suppose, because I live among books, I have
                no sympathy with my fellow-creatures? Tell me what is wrong with you, child. You have been grieving about the father
                you have lately lost, I
                suppose.</q>
         </p>
         <p>
            <q>No, sir; it is not that. I shall never leave off being sorry for
                that. It is a grief which will last me all my life.</q>
         </p>
         <p>
            <q>What, there is something else then?</q> asked Michael
            impatiently. <q>I see; you are not happy here. Hard work does
                not suit you. I thought as much.</q>
         </p>
         <p>
            <q>Oh, sir, please don’t think that,</q> cried the girl,
                very earnestly. <q>Indeed, I am glad to work–glad to be in service; it is only—-</q>
         </p>
         <p>She faltered and broke down, the tears
            rolling slowly from her sorrowful eyes,
            despite her effort to keep them back.</p>
         <p>
            <q>Only what?</q> cried Michael, growing angry. <q>The girl is full of secrets and mysteries. What do you mean, wench?</q>
         </p>
         <p>
            <q>I–I know it is very
                foolish, sir; but I am afraid of the
                room where I sleep.</q>
         </p>
         <p>
            <q>Afraid!
                Why?</q>
         </p>
         <p>
            <q>Shall I tell you the truth, sir? Will you promise not to be
                angry?</q>
         </p>
         <p>
            <q>I will not be angry if you will only speak plainly; but you
                provoke me by these hesitations and suppressions.</q>
         </p>
         <p>
            <q>And please, sir, do not tell Mrs.
                    Skegg that I have told you. She would scold me; or perhaps even send
                me away.</q>
         </p>
         <p>
            <q>Mrs. Skegg shall not
                scold you. Go on, child</q>.</p>
         <p>
            <q>You may not know the room where I sleep, sir; it is a large room at
                one end of the house, looking towards
                the sea. I can see the dark line of water from the window, and I wonder sometimes to
                think that it is the same ocean I used to see when I was a child at Yarmouth. It is very lonely, sir, at the top of the house. Mr. and Mrs.
                    Skegg sleep in a little room near the kitchen, you know, sir, and I
                am quite alone on the top
                floor.</q>
         </p>
         <p>
            <q>Skegg told me you had been educated in advance of your
                position in life, Maria. I should have thought
                the first effect of a good education would have been to make you superior to any
                foolish fancies about empty
                rooms.</q>
         </p>
         <p>
            <q>Oh, pray, sir, do not think it is any fault in my education. Father
                took such pains with me; he spared no
                expense in giving me as good an education as a tradesman’s daughter need wish for.
                And he was a religious man, sir. He did not believe</q>–here she paused, with a
            suppressed shudder–<q>in the spirits of the dead appearing to the living, since the days of miracles,
                when the ghost of Samuel appeared to
                Saul</q>.</p>
         <p>He never put any foolish ideas into my head, sir. I hadn’t a thought of fear when I first lay down to rest in the big
            lonely room upstairs.</p>
         <p>
            <q>Well, what then?</q>
         </p>
         <p>
            <q>But on the very first
                night,</q> the girl went on breathlessly, <q>I felt weighed
                down in my sleep as if there were some heavy burden laid upon my chest. It was not a
                    bad dream, but it was a sense of
                    trouble that followed me all
                through my sleep; and just at daybreak–it begins to be light a little after six–I
                woke suddenly, with the cold
                perspiration pouring down my face, and
                knew that there was something dreadful
                in the room.</q>
         </p>
         <p>
            <q>What do you mean by something dreadful. Did you see anything?</q>
         </p>
         <p>
            <q>Not much, sir; but it froze the blood in my veins, and I knew it was
                this that had been following me and weighing upon me all through my sleep. In the
                corner, between the fire-place and the wardrobe, I saw a shadow–a dim, shapeless
                shadow—-</q>
         </p>
         <p>
            <q>Produced by an angle of the wardrobe, I daresay.</q>
         </p>
         <p>
            <q>No, sir; I could see the shadow of the wardrobe, distinct and sharp, as if it had been
                painted on the wall. This shadow was
                in the corner–a strange, shapeless mass; or, if it had any shape at all,
                it seemed—-</q>
         </p>
         <p>
            <q>What?</q> asked Michael eagerly.</p>
         <p>
            <q>The shape of a dead body
                    hanging against the
            wall!</q>
         </p>
         <p>Michael Bascom grew strangely
            pale, yet he affected utter
            incredulity.</p>
         <p>
            <q>Poor
                child,</q> he said kindly;
                <q>you have been fretting about your father until your
                    nerves are in a weak state, and
                you are full of fancies. A shadow in
                the corner, indeed; why, at daybreak, every corner is full of shadows. My old coat, flung upon a chair, will make you as good a ghost as you need care to see.</q>
         </p>
         <p>
            <q>Oh, sir, I have tried to think it is my fancy. But I have had the
                same burden weighing me down every night. I have seen the same shadow every morning.</q>
         </p>
         <p>
            <q>But when broad daylight comes, can you not see what stuff
                your shadow is made of?</q>
         </p>
         <p>
            <q>No, sir: the shadow
                goes before it is broad daylight.</q>
         </p>
         <p>
            <q>Of course, just like other shadows. Come, come, get these silly notions out of your head, or
                you will never do for the work-a-day world. I could easily speak to Mrs. Skegg, and make her give you another room, if I
                wanted to encourage you in your folly. But that would be about the worst thing I
                could do for you. Besides, she tells me that all the other rooms on that floor are
                damp; and, no doubt, if she shifted you into one of them, you would discover another
                    shadow in another corner, and get
                rheumatism into the bargain. No, my good girl, you must try to prove yourself the
                better for a superior education.</q>
         </p>
         <p>
            <q>I will do my best, sir,</q>
            Maria answered meekly, dropping a curtsey.</p>
         <p>Maria went back to the kitchen sorely depressed. It
            was a dreary life she led at Wildheath
                Grange–dreary by day, awful by night;
            for the vague burden and the shapeless
            shadow, which seemed so slight a matter to
            the elderly scholar, were unspeakably terrible to her. Nobody had told her that the house was haunted, yet she walked about those echoing passages wrapped round
            with a cloud of fear. She had no pity from Daniel Skegg and his wife. Those
            two pious souls had made up their minds that the character of the house should be upheld, so far as Maria went. To her, as a foreigner, the Grange should be maintained to
            be an immaculate dwelling, tainted by no sulphurous blast from the under world. A
            willing, biddable girl had become a necessary element in the existence of Mrs. Skegg. That girl had been found, and that girl must
            be kept. Any fancies of a supernatural
            character must be put down with a high hand.</p>
         <p>
            <q>Ghosts,
                indeed!</q> cried the amiable Skegg.
                <q>Read your Bible, Maria,
                and don’t talk no more about ghosts.</q>
         </p>
         <p>
            <q>There are ghosts in the
                Bible,</q> said Maria, with a shiver at the recollection of certain awful
            passages in the Scripture she knew so well.</p>
         <p>
            <q>Ah, they was in their right place, or they wouldn’t ha’ been
                there,</q> retorted Mrs. Skegg. <q>You ain’t agoin’ to pick holes in your Bible, I hope, Maria, at your time of life.</q>
         </p>
         <p>Maria sat down quietly in her corner by the kitchen
            fire, and turned over the leaves of her dead father’s Bible till she came to the chapters they two had loved
            best and oftenest read together. He had been a simple-minded, straightforward man, the
            Yarmouth cabinet-maker–a man full of aspirations after good, innately refined,
                instinctively religious. He and his
            motherless girl had spent their lives alone
            together, in the neat little home which Maria had so
            soon learnt to cherish and beautify; and they had loved each other with an almost
            romantic love. They had had the same tastes, the same ideas. Very little had sufficed to make them happy. But inexorable
            death parted father and daughter, in one of those sharp, sudden partings which are like
            the shock of an earthquake–instantaneous ruin, desolation, and
                despair.</p>
         <p>Maria’s fragile form had bent before the tempest. She
            had lived through a trouble that might
            have crushed a stronger nature. Her deep religious convictions, and her belief that this
            cruel parting would not be for ever, had sustained her. She faced life, and its cares
            and duties, with a gentle patience which was the noblest form of courage.</p>
         <p>Michael Bascom told himself that the
            servant-girl’s foolish fancy about the room that had been given her was not a matter of
                serious consideration. Yet the idea
            dwelt in his mind unpleasantly, and disturbed him at his labours. The exact sciences
            require the complete power of a man’s brain, his utmost attention; and on this
            particular evening Michael found that he
            was only giving his work a part of his attention. The girl’s pale face, the girl’s tremulous tones, thrust themselves into
            the foreground of his thoughts.</p>
         <p>He closed his book with a fretful sigh, wheeled his large arm-chair round to the fire,
            and gave himself up to contemplation. To attempt study with so disturbed a mind was
            useless. It was a dull
            grey
            evening, early in November; the student’s reading-lamp was lighted, but the
            shutters were not yet shut, nor the curtains drawn. He could see the leaden
            sky outside his windows, the fir-tree tops
                tossing in the angry wind. He could
            hear the wintry blast whistling amidst the gables, before it rushed off seaward with a
                savage
            howl that sounded like a war-whoop.</p>
         <p>Michael Bascom
            shivered, and drew nearer the fire.</p>
         <p>
            <q>It’s childish,
                foolish nonsense,</q> he said to himself, <q>yet it’s
                    strange she should have that fancy
                about the shadow, for they say
                    Anthony Bascom destroyed himself in
                that room. I remember hearing it when I was a boy, from an old servant whose mother was housekeeper at the great house in Anthony’s time. I never heard how he
                    died, poor fellow–whether he poisoned himself, or shot himself,
                or cut his throat; but I’ve been told that was the room. Old Skegg has heard it too. I could see that by
                his manner when he told me the girl was to sleep there.</q>
         </p>
         <p>He sat for a long time, till the grey of
                evening outside his study windows
            changed to the black of night, and the war-whoop of the wind died away to a low
            complaining murmur. He sat looking into the fire, and letting his thoughts wander back
            to the past and the traditions he had heard in his boyhood.</p>
         <p>That was a sad, foolish story of his great-uncle, Anthony
                Bascom: the pitiful story of a wasted fortune and a wasted life. A
            riotous collegiate career at Cambridge, a racing-stable at Newmarket, an imprudent
            marriage, a dissipated life in London, a runaway wife; an estate forfeited to Jew
            money-lenders, and then the fatal end.</p>
         <p>Michael had often heard that dismal story: how, when Anthony Bascom’s fair false wife had left him, when his credit was
            exhausted, and his friends had grown tired of him, and all was gone except Wildheath
            Grange, Anthony, the broken-down man of
            fashion, had come to that lonely house
            unexpectedly one night, and had ordered his bed to be got ready for him in the room
            where he used to sleep when he came to the place for the wild duck shooting, in his boyhood. His old blunderbuss was still
            hanging over the mantelpiece, where he had
            left it when he came into the property, and could afford to buy the newest thing in
            fowling-pieces. He had not been to Wildheath for fifteen years; nav, for a good many of
            those years he had almost forgotten that the dreary
            old
            house belonged to him.</p>
         <p>The woman who had been housekeeper at
            Bascom Park, till house and lands had
            passed into the hands of the Jews, was at this time the sole occupant of Wildheath. She
            cooked some supper tor her master, and made him as comfortable as she could in the long
            untenanted dining-room; but she was distressed to find, when she cleared the table after
            he had gone upstairs to bed, that he had eaten hardly anything.</p>
         <p>Next morning she got his breakfast ready in the same room, which she managed to make
            brighter and cheerier than it had looked overnight. Brooms, dusting-brushes, and a good
            fire did much to improve the aspect of things. But the morning wore on to noon, and the
                old
            housekeeper listened in vain for her
            master’s footfall on the stairs. Noon waned to late afternoon. She had made no attempt
            to disturb him, thinking that he had worn himself out by a tedious journey on horseback,
            and that he was sleeping the sleep of exhaustion. But when the brief November day clouded with the first shadows of twilight, the
                old woman grew seriously
            alarmed, and went upstairs to her master’s
            door, where she waited in vain for any reply to her repeated calls and knockings.</p>
         <p>The door was locked on the inside, and the
                housekeeper was not strong enough to
            break it open. She rushed downstairs again full of fear, and ran bare-headed out into the lonely road. There was no
            habitation nearer than the turnpike on the old coach road, from which this side road branched off to the sea.
            There was scanty hope of a chance passer-by. The old woman ran along the road, hardly knowing whither she was going or
            what she was going to do, but with a vague idea that she must get somebody to help
            her.</p>
         <p>Chance favoured her. A cart, laden with sea-weed, came lumbering slowly along from the level line of sands yonder where the
            land melted into water. A heavy lumbering farm-labourer walked beside the cart.</p>
         <p>
            <q>For God’s sake, come in and burst open my master’s door!</q>
            she entreated, seizing the man by the arm. <q>He’s
                lying dead, or in a fit, and I can’t
                get to help him.</q>
         </p>
         <p>
            <q>All right, missus,</q> answered the man, as if such an
            invitation were a matter of daily occurrence. <q>Whoa, Dobbin; stond
                    still, horse, and be donged to
                thee.</q>
         </p>
         <p>Dobbin was glad enough to be brought to anchor on the patch of waste grass in front of the Grange garden. His master
            followed the housekeeper upstairs, and
                shattered the old-fashioned box-lock with one blow of his ponderous fist.</p>
         <p>The old woman’s worst fear was realised. Anthony
                Bascom was dead. But the
            mode and manner of his death Michael had never been able to learn. The housekeeper’s daughter, who told him the story,
            was an old woman when he was a boy. She had
            only shaken her head, and looked unutterable things, when he questioned her too closely.
            She had never even admitted that the old
            squire had committed suicide. Yet the tradition of his self-destruction was rooted in
            the minds of the natives of Holcroft: and there was a settled belief that his
                ghost, at certain times and
                seasons,haunted Wildheath Grange.</p>
         <p>Now Michael Bascom was a stern materialist.
            For him the universe with all its inhabitants, was a great machine, governed by
            inexorable laws. To such a man the idea of a ghost was simply absurd–as absurd as the assertion that two and two
            make five, or that a circle can be formed of a straight line. Yet he had a kind of
            dilettante interest in the idea of a mind which could believe in ghosts. The subject offered an amusing psychological study.
            This poor little pale girl, now, had evidently got some supernatural
            terror into her head, which could only be
            conquered by rational treatment.</p>
         <p>
            <q>I know what I ought to do,</q>
            Michael Bascom said to himself suddenly.
                <q>I’ll occupy that room myself tonight, and demonstrate to
                this foolish girl that her notion about the shadow is nothing more than a silly fancy, bred of timidity and
                low spirits. An ounce of proof is better than a pound of argument. If I can prove to
                her that I have spent a night in the room, and seen no such shadow, she will understand what an idle thing
                superstition is.</q>
         </p>
         <p>Daniel came in presently to shut the shutters.</p>
         <p>
            <q>Tell your wife to make up my bed in the room where Maria has been sleeping, and to put her into one of the
                rooms on the first floor for to-night, Skegg,</q> said Mr.
                Bascom.</p>
         <p>
            <q>Sir?</q>
         </p>
         <p>Mr. Bascom
            repeated his order.</p>
         <p>
            <q>That silly wench has been complaining to you about her
                room,</q>
            Skegg exclaimed indignantly. <q>She doesn’t deserve to be well fed and cared for in a comfortable
                home. She ought to go to the workhouse.</q>
         </p>
         <p>
            <q>Don’t be angry with the poor girl, Skegg. She has
                taken a foolish fancy into her head, and I want to show her how silly she
                is,</q> said Mr. Bascom.</p>
         <p>
            <q>And you want to sleep in his–in that room yourself,</q>
            said the butler.</p>
         <p>
            <q>Precisely.</q>
         </p>
         <p>
            <q>Well,</q> mused Skegg, <q>if he does walk–which I don’t
                believe–he was your own flesh and blood; and I don’t suppose he’ll do you any
                hurt.</q>
         </p>
         <p>When Daniel Skegg went back to the kitchen he
            railed mercilessly at poor
            Maria, who sat pale and silent in her
            corner by the hearth, darning old
            Mrs. Skegg’s grey worsted stockings, which were the roughest and harshest armour
            that ever human foot clothed itself withal. <q>Was there ever
                such a whimsical, fine, lady-like miss,</q> demanded Daniel, <q>to come into a
                gentleman’s house, and drive him out
                of his own bedroom to sleep in an attic, with her nonsenses and vagaries.</q>
            If this was the result of being educated above one’s station, Daniel declared that he was thankful he had never got
            so far in his schooling as to read words of two syllables without spelling. Education
            might be hanged for him, if this was all
            it led to.</p>
         <p>
            <q>I am very
                sorry,</q> faltered Maria, weeping
                silently over her work. <q>Indeed, Mr. Skegg, I made no
                complaint. My master questioned me, and I told him the truth. That was
            all.</q>
         </p>
         <p>
            <q>All!</q> exclaimed Mr.
                Skegg irately; <q>all, indeed! I should think it
                was enough.</q>
         </p>
         <p>Poor
            Maria held her peace. Her mind, fluttered by
                Daniel’s unkindness, had wandered away from
            that bleak big kitchen to the lost home of
            the past–the snug little parlour where she and her father had sat beside the cosy hearth
            on such a night as this; she with her smart work-box and her plain sewing, he with the
            newspaper he loved to read; the petted cat purring on the rug, the kettle singing on the
            bright brass trivet, the tea-tray pleasantly suggestive of the most comfortable meal in
            the day.</p>
         <p>Oh, those happy nights, that dear companionship! Were they really gone for ever, leaving
            nothing behind them but unkindness and servitude?</p>
         <p>Michael Bascom retired later than usual that
            night. He was in the habit of sitting at his books long after every other lamp but his
            own had been extinguished. The Skeggs had
            subsided into silence and darkness in their drear ground-floor bed-chamber. Tonight his studies were of a
            peculiarly interesting kind, and belonged to the order of recreative reading rather than
            of hard work. He was deep in the history of that mysterious people who had their dwelling-place in the Swiss lakes, and
            was much exercised by certain speculations and theories about them.</p>
         <p>The old eight-day clock on the stairs was
            striking two as Michael slowly ascended,
            candle in hand, to the hitherto unknown region of the attics. At the top of the
            staircase he found himself facing a dark narrow passage which led northwards, a passage
            that was in itself sufficient to strike terror to a superstitious
            mind, so black and uncanny did it look.</p>
         <p>
            <q>Poor
                child,</q> mused Mr. Bascom, thinking of Maria; <q>this attic floor is rather
                    dreary, and for a young mind prone
                to fancies—-</q>
         </p>
         <p>He had opened the door of the north room by this time, and stood looking about him.</p>
         <p>It was a large room, with a ceiling that sloped on one side, but was fairly lofty upon
            the other; an old-fashioned room, full of
                old-fashioned furniture–big, ponderous,
            clumsy–associated with a day that was gone and people that were dead. A walnut-wood wardrobe stared him in the face–a
            wardrobe with brass handles, which gleamed out of the darkness like diabolical eyes.
            There was a tall four-post bedstead, which
            had been cut down on one side to accommodate the slope of the ceiling, and which had a
                misshapen and deformed aspect in consequence. There was an old mahogany bureau, that smelt of secrets. There were some heavy old chairs with rush bottoms, mouldy with age, and much worn. There was a corner washstand,
            with a big basin and a small jug–the odds and ends of past years. Carpet there was none,
            save a narrow strip beside the bed.</p>
         <p>
            <q>It is a dismal room,</q> mused Michael, with the same
                touch of pity for Maria’s weakness which he had felt on the landing just
            now.</p>
         <p>To him it mattered nothing where he slept; but having let himself down to a lower level
            by his interest in the Swiss lake-people, he was in a manner humanised by the lightness
            of his evening’s reading, and was even
            inclined to compassionate the weaknesses of a foolish girl.</p>
         <p>He went to bed, determined to sleep his soundest. The bed was comfortable, well supplied
            with blankets, rather luxurious than otherwise, and the scholar had that agreeable sense
            of fatigue which promises profound and restful slumber.</p>
         <p>He dropped off to sleep quickly, but woke with a start ten minutes afterwards. What was
            this consciousness of a burden of care that had awakened him–this sense of all-pervading
                trouble that weighed upon his spirits
            and oppressed his heart–this icy
            horror of some terrible crisis in life through which he must inevitably
            pass? To him these feelings were as novel as they were painful. His life had flowed on with smooth and sluggish tide,
            unbroken by so much as a ripple of sorrow. Yet to-night he felt all the pangs of
            unavailing remorse; the agonising memory of a life wasted; the stings of humiliation and
            disgrace, shame, ruin; a hideous death, which he had doomed himself to die by his own
            hand. These were the horrors that pressed
            him round and weighed him down as he lay in Anthony
                Bascom’s room.</p>
         <p>Yes, even he, the man who could recognise nothing in nature, or in nature’s God, better
            or higher than an irresponsible and invariable machine governed by mechanical laws, was
            fain to admit that here he found himself face to face with a psychological mystery. This trouble, which came between him and sleep, was the trouble that had
            pursued Anthony Bascom on the last night of his life. So had the suicide felt as he lay
            in that lonely room, perhaps striving to rest his wearied brain with one last earthly
            sleep before he passed to the unknown intermediate land where all is darkness and
            slumber. And that troubled mind had
                haunted the room ever since. It was not
            the ghost of the man’s body that returned
            to the spot where he had suffered and perished, but the ghost of his mind–his very self; no meaningless simulacrum of the clothes he were, and the
            figure that filled them.</p>
         <p>Michael Bascom was not the man to abandon his
            high ground of sceptical philosophy without a struggle. He tried his hardest to conquer
            this oppression that weighed upon mind and sense. Again and again he succeeded in
            composing himself to sleep, but only to wake again and again to the same
                    torturing thoughts, the same
                    remorse, the same despair. So the night passed in
            unutterable weariness; for though he told himself that the trouble was not his trouble, that there was no reality in the burden, no reason for the
            remorse, these vivid fancies were as painful as realities, and took as strong a hold upon him.</p>
         <p>The first streak of light crept in at the window–dim, and cold, and grey; then came
                twilight, and he looked at the corner
            between the wardrobe and the door.</p>
         <p>Yes; there was the shadow: not the
                shadow of the wardrobe only–that was
            clear enough, but a vague and shapeless
            something which darkened the dull brown
            wall; so faint, so shadow, that he could
            form no conjecture as to its nature, or the thing it represented. He determined to watch
            this shadow till broad daylight; but the
            weariness of the night had exhausted him, and before the first dimness of dawn had
            passed away he had fallen fast asleep, and was tasting the blessed balm of undisturbed
            slumber. When he woke the winter sun was shining in at the lattice, and the room had
                lost its gloomy aspect. It looked old-fashioned, and grey,
            and brown, and shabby; but the depth of its gloom had fled with the shadows and the darkness of night.</p>
         <p>Mr. Bascom rose refreshed by a sound sleep,
            which had lasted nearly three hours. He remembered the wretched feelings which had gone
            before that renovating slumber; but he recalled his strange sensations only to despise them, and he despised himself for
            having attached any importance to them.</p>
         <p>
            <q>Indigestion very
                likely,</q> he told himself; <q>or perhaps mere fancy,
                engendered of that foolish girl’s story. The wisest of us is more under the dominion
                of imagination than he would care to confess. Well, Maria shall not sleep in this room any more. There is no particular
                reason why she should, and she shall not be made unhappy to please old Skegg and his wife.</q>
         </p>
         <p>When he had dressed himself in his usual leisurely way, Mr. Bascom walked up to the corner where he had seen or imagined the
                shadow, and examined the spot carefully.</p>
         <p>At first sight he could discover nothing of a mysterious character. There was no door in the papered wall, no trace
            of a door that had been there in the past. There was no trap-door in the worm-eaten
            boards. There was no dark ineradicable stain to hint at murder. There was not the faintest suggestion of a secret or a mystery.</p>
         <p>He looked up at the ceiling. That was sound enough, save for a dirty patch here and there
            where the rain had blistered it.</p>
         <p>Yes; there was something–an insignificant thing, yet with a suggestion of grimness which
            startled him.</p>
         <p>About a foot below the ceiling he saw a large iron hook projecting from the wall, just
            above the spot where he had seen the shadow of a vaguely defined form. He mounted on a chair the better to
                examine this hook, and to understand,
            if he could, the purpose for which it had been put there.</p>
         <p>It was old and rusty. It must have been there for many years. Who could have
            placed it there, and why? It was not the kind of hook upon which one would hang a picture or one’s garments. It was placed in
            an obscure corner. Had Anthony Bascom put it
            there on the night he died; or did he find it there ready for a fatal use?</p>
         <p>
            <q>If I were a superstitious man,</q> thought Michael,
                <q>I should be inclined to believe that
                        Anthony Bascom hung himself from
                    that rusty
                    old
            hook.</q>
         </p>
         <p>
            <q>Sleep well, sir?</q> asked
                Daniel, as he waited upon his master at breakfast.</p>
         <p>
            <q>Admirably,</q> answered Michael, determined not to
            gratify the man’s curiosity.</p>
         <p>He had always resented the idea that Wildheath Grange was haunted.</p>
         <p>
            <q>Oh, indeed, sir. You were so late that I fancied—-</q>
         </p>
         <p>
            <q>Late, yes! I slept so well that I overshot my usual hour for
                waking. But, by-the-way, Skegg, as that
                    poor girl objects to the room, let
                her sleep somewhere else. It can’t make any difference to us, and it may make some
                difference to her.</q>
         </p>
         <p>
            <q>Humph!</q> muttered Daniel in his grumpy way; <q>you didn’t see
                anything queer up there, did
                you?</q>
         </p>
         <p>
            <q>See anything? Of course not.</q>
         </p>
         <p>
            <q>Well, then, why should she see things? It’s all her silly
                fiddle-faddle.</q>
         </p>
         <p>
            <q>Never mind, let her sleep in another room.</q>
         </p>
         <p>
            <q>There ain’t another room on the top floor that’s
            dry.</q>
         </p>
         <p>
            <q>Then let her sleep on the floor below. She creeps about
                quietly enough, poor little timid
                thing. She won’t disturb me.</q>
         </p>
         <p>Daniel grunted, and his master understood the grunt to mean obedient assent; but here Mr.
            Bascom was unhappily mistaken. The proverbial obstinacy of the pig family is as nothing
            compared with the obstinacy of a cross-grained old man, whose narrow mind has never been illuminated by
                education. Daniel was beginning to feel
            jealous of his master’s compassionate interest in the orphan girl. She was a sort of
            gentle clinging thing that might creep into an elderly bachelor’s heart unawares, and
            make herself a comfortable nest there.</p>
         <p>
            <q>We shall have fine carryings-on, and me and my old woman will be nowhere, if I don’t put down
                my heel pretty strong upon this nonsense,</q>
                Daniel muttered to himself, as he carried the breakfast-tray to the
            pantry.</p>
         <p>Maria met him in the passage.</p>
         <p>
            <q>Well, Mr. Skegg, what did my
                master say?</q> she asked breathlessly.</p>
         <p>
            <q>Did he see anything strange in the room?</q>
         </p>
         <p>
            <q>No, girl. What should he see? He said you were a
            fool.</q>
         </p>
         <p>
            <q>Nothing disturbed him? And he slept there peacefully?</q>
            faltered Maria.</p>
         <p>
            <q>Never slept better in his life. Now don’t you begin to feel
                ashamed of yourself?</q>
         </p>
         <p>
            <q>Yes,</q> she answered meekly; <q>I am ashamed
                of being so full of fancies. I will go back to my room tonight, Mr. Skegg, if you like, and I will never complain
                of it again.</q>
         </p>
         <p>
            <q>I hope you won’t,</q> snapped Skegg; <q>you’ve given us trouble enough already.</q>
         </p>
         <p>Maria sighed, and went about her work in saddest
                silence. The day wore slowly on, like all other days in that lifeless
                old
            house. The scholar sat in his study;
                Maria moved softly from room to room, sweeping
            and dusting in the cheerless solitude. The
            mid-day sun faded into the grey of
            afternoon, and evening came down like a
            blight upon the dull
            old
            house.</p>
         <p>Throughout that day Maria and her master never met.
            Anyone who had been so far interested in the girl as to observe her appearance would
            have seen that she was unusually pale, and
            that her eyes had a resolute look, as of one who was resolved to face a painful ordeal. She ate hardly anything all day.
            She was curiously
            silent. Skegg and his wife put down both
            these symptoms to temper.</p>
         <p>
            <q>She won’t eat and she won’t talk,</q> said Daniel to the partner of his joys. <q>That means sulkiness, and I never allowed sulkiness to master me
                when I was a young man, and you tried it on as a young woman, and I’m not going to
                be conquered by sulkiness in my old
                age.</q>
         </p>
         <p>Bed-time came, and Maria bade the Skeggs a civil good-night, and went up to her
            lonely garret without a murmur.</p>
         <p>The next morning came, and Mrs. Skegg looked in
            vain for her patient hand-maiden, when she wanted Maria’s services in preparing the breakfast.</p>
         <p>
            <q>The wench sleeps sound enough this morning,</q> said the
                old woman. <q>Go
                and call her, Daniel. My poor legs can’t stand them stairs.</q>
         </p>
         <p>
            <q>Your poor legs are
                getting uncommon useless,</q> muttered
                Daniel testily, as he went to do his wife’s behest.</p>
         <p>He knocked at the door, and called Maria–once, twice,
            thrice, many times; but there was no reply. He tried the door, and found it locked. He shook the door violently, cold
            with fear.</p>
         <p>Then he told himself that the girl had played him a trick. She had stolen away before
            daybreak, and left the door locked to
                frighten him. But, no; this could not
            be, for he could see the key in the lock
            when he knelt down and put his eye to the keyhole. The key prevented his seeing into the
            room.</p>
         <p>
            <q>She’s in there, laughing in her sleeve at me,</q> he told
            himself; <q>but I’ll soon be even with her.</q>
         </p>
         <p>There was a heavy bar on the staircase, which was intended to secure the shutters of the
            window that lighted the stairs. It was a detached bar, and always stood in a corner near
            the window, which it was but rarely employed to fasten.
                Daniel ran down to the landing, and seized upon this massive iron bar,
            and then ran back to the garret door.</p>
         <p>One blow from the heavy bar shattered the
                old
            lock, which was the same lock the carter had broken with his strong fist seventy years before. The door
                flew open, and Daniel went into the attic which he had chosen for the
                stranger’s bed-chamber.</p>
         <p>Maria was hanging from the hook in the wall. She
            had contrived to cover her face decently with her handkerchief. She had hanged herself deliberately about an hour
                before Daniel found her, in the early
                grey of morning. The doctor, who was
            summoned from Holcroft, was able to declare the time at which she had slain herself, but
            there was no one who could say what sudden access of terror had impelled her to the desperate act, or under what
                slow
            torture of nervous
            apprehension her mind had given way. The
            coroner’s jury returned the customary merciful verdict of "Temporary insanity".</p>
         <p>The girl’s melancholy fate darkened the rest
            of Michael Bascom’s life. He fled from
            Wildheath Grange as from an accursed spot, and from the
                Skeggs as from the murderers of a harmless innocent girl. He ended his days at Oxford,
            where he found the society of congenial minds, and the books he loved. But the memory of
                Maria’s sad face, and sadder death, was his
            abiding sorrow. Out of that deep shadow
            his soul was never lifted.</p>
      </div>
   </body>
</html>
